Management and Maintenance of External 
Façades and Exterior Features
12STRATA
MANAGEMENT
GUIDE
Strata Management Guide
2 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under 
the BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or 
BM(SM) Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific 
legal rights and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or 
any agency stated in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information 
contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, 
create derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. 
If you wish to use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, 
please seek BCA’s prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in November 2023
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides, published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”), is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and Managing Agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates. 
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to make requisitions of motions).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community 
to facilitate better self-regulation. 
Strata Management Guide
3 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Content
Good Practice
Icon in this guide
Preamble
1. Introduction 4
2. Responsible Person(s) for Exterior Feature(s) 5
3. Window Safety 6
4. Air-Conditioning Unit Safety 8
5. Common Types of Defects in External Facades or Exterior Features 9
Abbreviations
AGM Annual General Meeting
BC Act Building Control Act 1989
BMSMA Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004
BM(SM) Building Maintenance (Strata Management)
Regulations Regulations 2005
MA Managing Agent
MCST Management Corporation Strata Title
MC Management Corporation
SP Subsidiary Proprietor
Strata Management Guide
4 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
01 Introduction
1.1 This guide sets out information which MCSTs and SPs may find useful pertaining to the 
management and maintenance of exterior façades and features of buildings in a stratatitled development, notwithstanding that the responsibilities of the BC Act apply to all 
building owners.
1.2 This guide will cover some examples of exterior features and external façades, and some 
good practices that the person(s) responsible for these facades and features can refer 
to during maintenance.
1.3 For some of the examples and definitions mentioned, references are made to the BC Act 
and Regulations. For example, the definition of “exterior features” is as defined under 
the BC Act.
1.4 Exterior Features (Section 9 of the BMSMA)
In general, an exterior feature is any item that is permanent and is installed onto, forms a 
part of, or projects outward from the roof or the external face of the building. Please see 
the illustration below for examples of exterior features on a building:
Strata Management Guide
5 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Responsible Person(s) 
for Exterior Feature(s)
(Section 2 and 9 of the BMSMA)
02
 MC’s responsibility SP’s responsibility
• Fixed, full length window claddings 
that are not part of a flat
• Fixed sun shading devices
• Vertical greenery
• Sliding and casement windows that 
are part of a flat 
• Supporting system of an airconditioning unit 
2.1 The person(s) responsible for exterior features must ensure that they are properly maintained 
and securely fixed to the building to prevent the exterior features from collapsing or falling 
from height, which may cause injury to passers-by. 
2.2 The person(s) responsible is generally the owner of the building on which the exterior 
feature is installed, or the person who has daily charge and control of the management 
and maintenance of the exterior feature.
2.3 Both the MC and the SPs are responsible for their own exterior features. Depending on 
the Strata Title Plan, some common examples (non-exhaustive) include:
2.4 Should there be a collapse of any exterior feature, or its support, and if it was found to have 
been caused by a lack of proper maintenance, the person(s) responsible may face a fine 
up to $10,000, imprisonment for a term up to 12 months, or both.
Strata Management Guide
6 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Window Safety
(Section 9 of the BMSMA & Section 22B of the BC Act)
Aluminium rivets Stainless steel rivets
Rusty fasteners Clean fasteners
03
1 Rusty or loose fasteners may affect the strength of the support. When not securely fastened, the window may not be 
sufficiently supported and fall off.
2 Aluminium rivets were traditionally used for window installation; however, aluminium is highly susceptible to corrosion. 
In 2004, a law was passed to mandate the replacement of all aluminium rivets with stainless steel rivets in respect of 
residential properties.
3.1 SPs are advised to inspect and maintain their windows at least twice a year to avoid 
incidents of fallen windows and resulting statutory liabilities.
3.2 Casement Windows
a) Check that the fasteners1
 are not rusty or loose, and replace rusty or loose fasteners.
b) Clean and lubricate all movable parts of windows.
When window tracks are dirty, more force is required to open or close the window. 
The additional force may cause the window to be dislodged and fall off.
If the building obtained a temporary occupation permit before 2004, SPs are required 
to ensure that all window rivets2
 are changed from aluminium to stainless steel.
Strata Management Guide
7 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Dirty track Clean track
Safety stoppers L-angle strip
3 Safety stoppers reduce the gap between the tracks and the windows, preventing windows from moving vertically.
4 Angle strips create a barrier; in the event that the window becomes vertically dislodged, it will be guided back into position.
5 When window tracks are dirty, more force is required to close or open the window. The additional force may cause the 
window to be dislodged and fall off.
6 Worn-out or displaced safety features may not be able to prevent the dislodgement of windows.
3.3 Sliding Windows
a) Install and periodically check that the safety stoppers3
 and angle strips4 are secured 
in place.
b) Clean the window tracks5
 and ensure the window panels can slide smoothly.
c) Change worn-out safety stoppers and angle strips6
 by engaging an approved 
window contractor.
3.4 Any person who wishes to repair, renovate or install windows must engage an Approved 
Window Contractor. A list of Approved Window Contractors can be found at Result — BCA 
Directory.
Strata Management Guide
8 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Air-Conditioning 04Unit Safety
1 To check for Trained Air-conditioning Unit Installers, please submit your enquiry via BCA’s Online Feedback Form. 
4.1 For air-conditioning units within the SP’s lot, it is the SP’s responsibility to maintain the 
air-conditioning units and relevant supporting systems. 
4.2 If no air-conditioner ledge is available, all air-conditioning units installed on the second 
storey or above must be supported by a stainless-steel supporting frame. The supporting 
frame should be inspected regularly, at least once every 6 months, to ensure that the 
supporting frame and fixings have not corroded or loosened over time.
4.3 Any person who wishes to repair or install the air-conditioning unit or the supporting frame 
must engage a Trained Air-conditioning unit Installer1
. 
Strata Management Guide
9 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Common Types of Defects 
in External Facades or 
Exterior Features 05
Peeling paintwork
5.1 Common defects due to lack of maintenance
The illustrations below show some of the common defects. It is important that such defects 
are rectified early to prevent safety issues. You can consult your own competent persons 
or repair specialists on the steps to be taken for rectifying the defects.
MCs may wish to refer to the list of Competent Persons (CPs) and PFI Guidelines
published on BCA’s website and the infographic on the importance of maintaining their 
building façades.
Types of common defects
Stains on building façade
Strata Management Guide
10 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Vegetation growth
Plaster de-bonding and cracks / bulges
Strata Management Guide
11 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Stretched sealant
Dangling stone panel
Cracks and spalling concrete
Corroded railing
Cracks and dangling stone panel
Strata Management Guide
12 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Dislodged brick façade
Cracks and dislodging tiles
Strata Management Guide
13 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Detached ceiling board and corroded ceiling supports
Strata Management Guide
14 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
References:
BMSMA 2004 – Sections 2, 9
BC Act 1989 – Section 22B
Building Control (Meaning of Exterior Features) Regulations 2021
Building Control Regulations 2003 – Regulation 41B, 41C, 41D
 Good Practice: Installation of grilles at exterior of balconies
It is very common for grilles or louvres to be installed on the exterior of balconies 
or within a unit (e.g. at a parapet wall, for safety purposes or to shield residents 
from the sun). However, questions or disputes may arise as to who is responsible 
for maintaining the grilles or louvres. In such situations, what should the relevant 
parties do?
What should the SP do?
 If the grilles or louvres are within the strata title plan (STP), it should be the SP’s 
responsibility to maintain them. If in doubt, SPs should check with the MC.
What should the MC do?
 The MC should refer to the STP to determine whether the grilles or louvres are 
installed within the SP’s lot and have the records documented somewhere to 
provide consistent guidance to SPs. 
5.2 If any building or common property is not kept in a good and serviceable condition, the 
owner may be issued a notice in writing by the authorities to conduct repairs or alteration.
5.3 If the owner is issued a notice to maintain his building (including parts of the building) and 
fails to comply with the notice without reasonable excuse, that person shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000. In the case of a continuing offence, a further 
fine not exceeding $25 for every day or part thereof will be imposed during which the 
offence continues after conviction.
Strata Management Guide
15 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
Annex A
Extract of the Building Control (Meaning of Exterior Features) Regulations 2021
What are “exterior features”?
2. (1) For the purpose of paragraph (b) of the definition of “exterior feature” in section 2(1) 
of the Act, the following permanent features of a building are each prescribed to be 
an exterior feature of the building:
a) any window, with or without movable parts, such as a roof skylight, glass panel, glass 
brick, louvre, glazed sash, glazed door, translucent sheeting and any other building 
material which transmits natural light directly from outside a building into an interior 
of the building;
b) any grille or shutter, with or without movable parts;
c) any tile, cladding, curtain wall, siding, plaster, bracket or cornice;
d) any gutter, rainwater down pipe or part of the roof;
e) any membrane shade structure, or any awning or device to provide shade;
f) any green wall which is partially or completely covered by vegetation, including any 
brackets that support it, the growing medium for the vegetation (other than soil) and 
any integrated water delivery system;
g) any screen or screen wall;
h) any louvres or fins;
i) any masonry veneer;
j) any window hood;
k) any cantilevered roof;
l) any part of a concrete wall, concrete slab, concrete beam or concrete column;
m) any external balustrade;
n) any directional sign, signboard, skysign, animated billboard or other advertising 
structure installed for more than 36 months, and includes any frame, panel, hoarding 
or other supporting structure of or for the directional sign, signboard, skysign, animated 
billboard or other advertising structure;
o) any clothes drying rack;
Strata Management Guide
16 Management and Maintenance of External Façades and Exterior Features
p) any suspended ceiling system 
i) fitted under or hung from —
A) a porch, porte cochere or portico;
B) a covered concourse or walkway; or
C) a similar shelter,
that is located at the entrance or side of a building or projects from or near an 
external edge of a building, and spans across a space below which is accessible 
to members of the public; and
ii) the underside of which is exposed to rain;
q) any of the following that is used or may be used, for more than 36 months, to 
attach to, or that supports or may support for use with, the building any externally 
mounted equipment:
i) a metal or concrete bracket, or similar structural supporting system attached to 
the building and to the externally mounted equipment (if any);
ii) a cable and other associated components of a structural supporting system 
mentioned in sub paragraph (i), where the cable or components are attached to 
the building and to the externally mounted equipment (if any).
(2) In paragraph (1)(q), “externally mounted equipment” includes the following:
a) an air conditioning unit and its condensing equipment;
b) a ventilation system;
c) a photovoltaic array or panel;
d) a solar water heater;
e) an apparatus (including a dish antenna) or a combination of apparatus for the 
transmission or direct reception of broadcast matter or wireless communication.
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01,
Singapore 608550
