Management and Maintenance 
of Common Property
11 STRATA
MANAGEMENT
GUIDE
Strata Management Guide
2 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides, published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”), is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates.
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to make requisitions for motions).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community 
to facilitate better self-regulation.
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under 
the BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM(SM) 
Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific 
legal rights and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or 
any agency stated in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information 
contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, 
create derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. 
If you wish to use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, 
please seek BCA’s prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in November 2023
Strata Management Guide
3 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
Content
Good Practice Example
Icons in this guide
Preamble
1. Introduction 4
2. Understanding the Strata Title Plan (STP) 6
3. Examples of Common Property 7
• Lightning Protection System (LPS)
• Structural Elements, e.g. Foundation / Load-bearing Walls
• Fire Sprinkler Protection System (FSPS)
• Central Air-Conditioning System (CACS)
4. Factors to Consider for the Maintenance of Common Property 9
5. Usage of Common Property 10
6. Insurance 11
Abbreviations
AGM Annual General Meeting
BC Act Building Control Act 1989
BMSMA Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004
BM(SM) Building Maintenance (Strata Management)
Regulations Regulations 2005
MA Managing Agent
MCST Management Corporation Strata Title
MC Management Corporation
SP Subsidiary Proprietor
Strata Management Guide
4 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
01 Introduction
1.1 Common property is:
1.1.1 any part of a land or building within the strata title plan (“STP”) that is not comprised 
within an individual lot and is capable of being used or enjoyed by occupiers across 
two or more lots;
1.1.2 in relation to the land or building mentioned in paragraph 1.1.1, any of the following, 
whether or not comprised within a lot, proposed lot or non-proposed lot:
1.1.2.1 the pipes, wires, cables or ducts which are used or capable of being used or 
enjoyed by occupiers across two or more lots, or are used for the servicing 
or enjoyment of the common property; 
1.1.2.2 the space enclosed by a structure enclosing pipes, wires, cables or ducts 
mentioned in paragraph 1.1.2.1 above;
1.1.2.3 any structural element of the building;
1.1.2.4 the waterproof membrane attached to an external wall or a roof.
Strata Management Guide
5 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
1 See Annex A of Guide 1 “Concept of Strata Living” on what constitutes ‘common property’.
1.2 It is important for the SP to be aware of what constitutes common property. The SP cannot, 
without permission from the MC, alter or make changes to common property (e.g. install 
additional awning on a common property wall) without obtaining the MC’s approval. 
1.3 Any SP or the MC should be familiar with what is typically considered common property. 
Some common examples include swimming pools, gyms, lift lobbies, corridors, carparks, 
lifts in common areas, playgrounds, gardens, drop-off points, exterior building walls, etc. 
Common properties also include the Lightning Protection System (“LPS”) and structural 
elements like foundation or load-bearing walls, which will be elaborated on in this guide. 
For a more detailed list of examples, you may refer to Section 2 of the BMSMA.1
1.4 This guide will also touch on the resolutions to note when dealing with common property.
Strata Management Guide
6 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
 Good Practice
Before an SP carries out renovation works for his / her lot, the SP should know 
where the boundary demarcating his / her lot from the common property is, 
and ensure that no works are carried out into the common property.
To know exactly what is considered common property and what is within an individual 
SP’s lot, one will need to look at the STP. In simple terms, the STP is a survey plan 
(not architectural plan) prepared by a licensed surveyor and registered with the 
Singapore Land Authority (“SLA”). The boundaries are usually demarcated by thick 
black lines. For a copy of the STP, any SP can approach the MC or SLA.
Sample of a Strata Title Plan
Source: Singapore Land Authority
02Understanding the STP
2.1 Oftentimes, queries may arise as to what constitutes the boundaries between the SP’s 
own lot and common property, or who is responsible for maintaining what (i.e. whether it 
should be the MC’s or individual SP’s responsibility to maintain the relevant property).
2.2 The basic rule is that generally, everything inside a lot is considered the SP’s property unless 
defined as “common property”. This includes the non-structural internal walls, fixtures that 
are not pipes, wires, cables or ducts, carpet and paint on the internal walls. For everything 
else, it would be prudent to refer to the STP.
Strata Management Guide
7 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
Examples of 03Common Property
LPS
• Maintenance and inspection of the LPS should be carried out in accordance with 
the latest Singapore Standard (SS) 555 Code of Practice for Protection Against 
Lightning. Enhancement works, if necessary, should be carried out as part of the 
regular upgrading works for the development. This could include improvements 
to the LPS at open, habitable areas where people are regularly present and at 
non-habitable flat roofs for better protection against spalling concrete caused by 
lightning strikes. 
• The owner of any building, or part of a building such as common property, that 
is not kept in a good and serviceable condition may be issued a notice in writing 
by the authorities to perform requisite repair works.
• For example, if the owner was issued a notice to maintain under the BMSMA and 
fails to comply with the notice, without reasonable excuse, that person shall be 
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000. In the case of a continuing 
offence, a fine not exceeding $25 for every day or part thereof may be imposed 
for the period that the offence continues after conviction.
3.1 This section elaborates on some common property examples.
Strata Management Guide
8 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
Structural Elements, e.g. Foundation / Load-bearing Walls
• If you intend to perform building works within your unit, you may need to obtain 
authorities’ approvals and permit, including ensuring compliance with requirements 
under the BC Act. 
• Further, there are restrictions on hacking works carried out on structural elements 
in your unit. Other than compliance with the BC Act, structural elements such as 
slabs, beams, columns and walls are common property, which shall not be altered 
without proper assessment by a Professional Engineer (“PE”) and approval by 
the MC. 
• For localised chasing and drilling works on structural elements for wiring works, 
competent renovation contractors shall be appointed and advice from a PE shall 
be sought to ensure that no strengthening of the structures are required, and the 
structural integrity of the building will not be affected. Clearance from the MC 
must also be obtained before any works on structural elements are carried out. 
• It is best to check with the developer or the MC and the Sale and Purchase 
Agreement (“S&PA”) regarding any restrictions on renovation works, prior to 
carrying out the works.
3.2 For clarity, the Fire Sprinkler Protection System (FSPS) and the Central Air-Conditioning 
System (CACS) are defined as common property under the BMSMA. For more details, 
please refer to the circulars issued by BCA on 7 February 2019. 
Strata Management Guide
9 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
Factors to Consider 
for the Maintenance 04of Common Property 
2 The National Environment Agency (NEA) regulates the quality of water in all licensable aquatic facilities with water recirculation 
systems in Singapore. This includes swimming pools, water playgrounds (including water fountains) and multi-use spa 
pools located at all non-residential premises.
• Budget / costs. Maintenance cost is a key factor in the annual budget of MCs. 
Hence, careful budget planning is required of MCs to ensure that maintenance 
services / materials are procured in a cost-effective and cost-efficient manner.
• Service-level expectations of vendors. MCs should communicate their service 
expectations / requirements clearly to the engaged vendors performing maintenance 
works (e.g. for cleaning services, security services), and where necessary, set 
it out in contractual agreements to avoid disputes.
• Relevant legislations / regulatory requirements / codes of practice. Certain 
laws and legislations make it mandatory for MCs to engage specialist staff to 
perform maintenance works. MCs are to check with the relevant regulatory 
agencies if in doubt. Some maintenance works include:
a) Maintenance of lift(s) and escalator(s) which require specific technical 
expertise, i.e. Specialist Professional Engineer (SPE).
b) Maintenance of electrical facilities such as high tension electrical switchgears 
or transformers that require a Licensed Electrical Worker (LEW) to operate 
and maintain these devices. 
c) Maintenance of swimming pool(s) and / or aquatic facilities (AF)2
 where an 
NEA license is mandatory for its operation. The MC must also renew the 
license annually. For more information, please refer to NEA’s website at: 
NEA | Aquatic Facilities (AF).
4.1 Generally, MCs will include the maintenance cost of common property in their annual 
budget. These would include essential services like cleaning services, security services, 
swimming pool maintenance, and lift and sanitary systems. 
4.2 Depending on the extent or coverage of these common properties, MCs could procure 
such professional services via a private service contract or agreement. When considering 
the scope of service contract or agreement, MCs should also refer to industry standards 
or codes of practice from the relevant agencies. Some areas MCs need to consider are:
Strata Management Guide
10 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
Usage of Common 05Property
 Good Practice: Lease of walkway in front of shop — Is it considered 
exclusive use? 
The previous MC had granted a temporary occupation license (TOL) to two SPs 
to place their items along the common area in front of the shops, without passing 
a resolution. 
The MC should have passed a resolution at a general meeting, to confer upon 
the SPs exclusive use and enjoyment of the common area, under section 33 of 
the BMSMA. 
What provisions under the BMSMA are relevant?
 If the use involves the ‘exclusive use and enjoyment of or special privileges’ to 
an SP in respect of the whole or part of the common property, the MC should 
refer to section 33 of the BMSMA on the type of resolution to be passed. The 
type of resolution to be passed depends on the length of such ‘exclusive use 
and enjoyment or special privileges’ (i.e. ordinary resolution — not exceeding 
one year; special resolution — exceeds one year but does not exceed 3 years; 
90% resolution — exceeds 3 years).
 Under section 34 of the BMSMA, if the MC wishes to rent any part of the 
common property to an external vendor or party, the MC must pass a resolution 
at a general meeting. The type of resolution to be passed depends on the 
length of the rental (i.e. ordinary resolution — not exceeding one year; special 
resolution — exceeds one year but does not exceed 3 years; 90% resolution 
— exceeds 3 years). 
Strata Management Guide
11 Management and Maintenance of Common Property
References:
BMSMA 2004 – Sections 2, 33, 34
Second Schedule to the BMSM Regs 2005
06Insurance 
 Good Practice: Insurance by Individual Owners
I am an individual owner and I wish to take out additional insurance for my 
own property. Can I do so?
Individual owners are free to take out other insurance in respect of their units, for 
example, to insure against damage to furnishings within their units. 
6.1 Every building in the estate must be insured under a damage policy against fire, lightning, 
explosion or any other occurrence specified in the policy. The MC can decide not to insure 
against any or all damages if all subsidiary proprietors agree [Section 70 of the BMSMA].
6.2 Apart from the insurance policy for damage, the MC must also take out any other insurance 
required by law, for example, insurance required under the Workmen’s Compensation Act. 
The MC must also take out public liability insurance for damage to property, or death or 
injury to any person that may occur on the common property [Section 71 of the BMSMA].
6.3 The MC may also buy Error and Omission (“E&O”) insurance for council members. 
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01,
Singapore 608550
