Carrying Out Works in Lots – 
What You Should Know
14STRATA
MANAGEMENT
GUIDE
Strata Management Guide
2 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides, published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”), is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates. 
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to make requisitions of motions). 
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation. 
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under 
the BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM(SM) 
Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific 
legal rights and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA 
or any agency stated in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information 
contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, 
create derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. 
If you wish to use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, 
please seek BCA’s prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in November 2023
Strata Management Guide
3 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
Content
Good Practice Example
Icons in this guide
Preamble
1. Introduction 4
2. Relevant Legislations to Take Note Of 5
• By-laws on carrying out works in a lot
• Exclusive use by-laws in respect of common property
• Works affecting the appearance and structural integrity of the buildings
• Works affecting the gross floor area of the developmen
• Safety equipment
• Structures or devices to prevent harm to children
3. Common Scenarios Relating to Carrying Out of Works within Lots 7
4. Design Guidelines — What You Should Know 10
5. Useful Materials on Renovation Works 11
Abbreviations
AGM Annual General Meeting
BMSMA Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004
BM(SM) Building Maintenance (Strata Management)
Regulations Regulations 2005
MA Managing Agent
MCST Management Corporation Strata Title
MC Management Corporation
SP Subsidiary Proprietor
Strata Management Guide
4 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
01 Introduction
1.1 New or existing SPs may carry out works to their unit or lot from time to time. These 
works may include installing a covering in the private enclosed space, replacing grilles for 
external windows and putting up blinds on the balcony.
1.2 In strata-titled developments such as condominiums, SPs should note that there are 
requirements which they are bound to comply with.
Strata Management Guide
5 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
Relevant Legislations 02to Take Note Of
There are relevant requirements in the BMSMA to consider when carrying out works in lots. An 
SP should take note of the following legislations:
2.1 By-laws on carrying out works in a lot
(Section 32 of the BMSMA)
2.1.1 The MC may make by-laws on guidelines to be observed by all SPs and occupiers 
in the development when carrying out works in their lots to ensure uniformity of the 
appearance of the building. These architectural guidelines may cover the design, 
colour, material, size, dimension, etc., of the works.
2.1.2 The MC may also make by-laws requiring an SP to fulfil certain requirements 
and obtain the MC’s approval prior to carrying out the works in a lot. These 
requirements may include requiring the SP to seek endorsement from a 
professional engineer on structural works and obtain approval from the 
relevant authorities, such as the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) on planning 
requirements, the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) on fire safety-related rules 
and the Commissioner of Building Control (CBC).
2.2 Exclusive use by-laws in respect of common property
(Section 33 of the BMSMA)
2.2.1 If the SP’s proposed work inevitably involves the use of the common property (e.g. 
the anchor points of a covering are mounted onto the external wall which is part of 
the common property), the SP has to obtain approval from the MC to carry out such 
works on the common property.
2.2.2 The MC can make exclusive use by-laws to confer on an SP the exclusive rights 
to use and enjoy the whole or a part of the common property upon conditions 
(including the payment of money at the specified time) specified in the by-laws.
Please refer to Guide 10 on “By-Laws” for more information.
2.3 Works affecting the appearance and structural integrity of the buildings
(Section 37(4) of the BMSMA)
2.3.1 If the SP’s proposed works will affect the appearance and structural integrity of the 
buildings, the SP is required to obtain authorisation from the MC before such works 
are carried out. As stated above, the MC may make by-laws on design guidelines 
for the works to ensure uniformity of the building’s appearance.
Strata Management Guide
6 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
2.4 Works affecting the gross floor area of the development
(Section 37 of the BMSMA)
2.4.1 If the SP’s proposed works will affect the gross floor area of the development, the SP 
needs to obtain MC’s authorisation through a 90% resolution in a general meeting.
[* - To pass a motion by 90% resolution, SPs comprising at least 90% of the aggregate 
share value of all SPs present in person or by proxy at the general meeting need to vote 
in favour of the motion.]
2.5 Safety equipment
(Section 37A of the BMSMA)
2.5.1 An SP may install safety equipment in his lot, or on a part of any window, door or 
opening on the lot which is facing outdoors. Whilst the MC shall not prevent the SP 
from installing the safety equipment, the SP must comply with the MC’s by-laws on 
design guidelines relating to the safety equipment, if any.
2.5.2 Safety equipment generally refers to features that prevent people from falling over 
the edge of an outdoor-facing balcony, terrace, window, door or opening.
2.6 Structure or device to prevent harm to children
(Paragraph 5(3) of the prescribed by-laws)
2.6.1 The MC shall not prevent an SP from installing any structure or device on his lot 
to prevent harm to children. Nonetheless, the SP has to comply with the MC’s 
by-laws on design guidelines relating to the structure or device, if any. Where 
necessary, the SP may provide to the MC documents or records (e.g. photographs) 
supporting the installation of such a structure or device.
Strata Management Guide
7 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
Common Scenarios 
Relating to Carrying Out of 
Works within Lots 
The following are some common scenarios relating to carrying out of works within lots and 
suggested approaches on what the SP and the MC should do in each scenario.
03
 Example 1: Installation of awning over private enclosed space (PES)
An SP wishes to erect an awning over his/her private enclosed space (PES) 
within his/her lot.
What can the SP / homeowner do?
 The SP should install the awning according to the guidelines that the MC may 
prescribe, and ensure that the awning does not detract from the appearance 
of the buildings.
 The SP should ensure that the awning is installed in a structurally competent 
manner by getting a Qualified Person (QP) or a Professional Engineer (PE) to 
certify the installation work. The PE should ensure that all necessary approvals 
are obtained from the relevant authorities, e.g. BCA, URA.
What should the MC do?
 The MC should advise the SP on the requirements or guidelines that should 
be complied with regarding the application for the installation of the awning 
in the PES (e.g. to seek URA’s approval if any proposed installation of the 
awning will increase the gross floor area of the development) and also to obtain 
a 90% resolution in a general meeting1
 where applicable. The MC can suggest 
to the SP to consult a PE on whether the proposed installation of the awning 
requires any submission to the relevant authorities.
 The MC should ensure that their guidelines comply with the statutory 
requirements of the relevant government agencies. If there are no such 
guidelines in place, the MC can decide the matter on a case-by-case basis.
* For more information on Balconies, Private Enclosed Spaces, Private Roof 
Terraces and Indoor Recreation Spaces, please refer to URA’s website.
1 The 90% resolution may be applicable depending on the design and connection of the awning. Refer to 2.2 for further details.
Strata Management Guide
8 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
 Example 2: Installation of window / balcony grilles for safety reasons
An SP who has young children wishes to install window / balcony grilles to 
enhance safety and to prevent his / her children from falling from height. What 
can he / she do?
What can the SP / homeowner do?
 The SP should check with the MC if there are any approved design guidelines 
to follow. If yes, the SP should comply. 
 If the SP wishes to have an alternative design, the SP may make a written 
request for the MC’s consideration or table the matter for discussion at the 
next general meeting.
What should the MC do?
 The MC cannot prevent the SP from installing safety devices (section 37A of 
the BMSMA).
 The MC can introduce design guidelines to ensure the grilles are uniform in 
appearance. 
If the SP and MC are unable to reach a consensus on this matter, either or both parties 
may apply to the Strata Titles Boards (STB) (www.stratatb.gov.sg) for a resolution.
For more information on dispute resolution, please refer to Guide 9 on “Dispute 
Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions”.
Strata Management Guide
9 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
 Example 3: Different approved design guidelines
The MC already has design guidelines to allow the installation of Venetian blinds, 
but the SP wishes to install bamboo blinds instead. What can the SP / MC do?
What can the SP do?
 The SP should check with the MC if there are any approved design guidelines 
to follow. If yes, the SP should comply.
 The SP may make a written request to the MC to consider if bamboo blinds 
are permitted.
What can the MC do?
 The MC may consider allowing the SP to install bamboo blinds on the 
merits of the matter (e.g. the design of the bamboo blinds did not affect the 
appearance of the building significantly). The MC may consider revising the 
design guidelines to allow for bamboo blinds.
Strata Management Guide
10 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
Design Guidelines — 04What You Should Know
 Good Practice: How does the MC ensure that design guidelines for 
grilles are consistently followed?
It is important to ensure that all SPs are aware of design guidelines approved by 
the MC to avoid disputes and inconsistencies on the ground with respect to design.
What should the MC do?
 The MC may refer to the sample mock-ups of materials and designs 
left by the developer, if any. During the initial period, the developer may 
display sample mock-ups of materials and design (for window grilles), and / or 
compile the information as factsheets. After the handover, the MC / MA may 
keep a master list of warranties so they can refer back to the sub-contractor 
vendor to give them a mock-up, if necessary. 
 The MC can convert existing design guidelines, e.g. guidelines provided by 
developers as house rules, to by-laws. By-laws pertaining to design guidelines 
can be made by passing a special resolution in a general meeting.
 The MC can issue a circular informing SPs that there are existing design 
guidelines for grilles / awnings for transparency so that SPs can adhere to 
them, and avoid conflicts and inconsistencies downstream.
4.1 There could be different types of design guidelines for ziptrack, grilles, blinds, screens / 
coverings the MC would want to adopt. The design guidelines should cover relevant 
specifications like the materials / colour of the fixture and the dimensions to be 
adopted. The MC could consult its consultant / building specialist / lawyer to draft the 
requirements and ensure the design guidelines are what the MC wants. Once the MC 
has the design guidelines / specifications, the MC can consider passing it as a by-law in a 
general meeting.
Strata Management Guide
11 Carrying Out Works in Lots – What You Should Know
References:
BMSMA 2004 – Sections 32, 33, 37(4), 37(A) 
Second Schedule to the BMSMA 2004
Useful Reference 
Materials on 
Renovation Works 05
There are other materials published by BCA to provide guidance on renovation works for private 
homes. Please refer to the following:
5.1 The guide on BCA’s website on the authority approval process for renovation for works 
for private homes. The website provides private homeowners who wish to carry out 
renovation works, a step-by-step guide on the authority approval process. The website 
also includes infographics on the insignificant building works not requiring BCA’s approval.
5.2 The educational video on BCA’s YouTube channel titled “Ensure Structural Safety During 
Renovation Works”. The video educates homeowners who wish to carry out renovation 
works, on engaging a professional engineer to advise on the proposed works and obtaining 
authority approval, where required.
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01,
Singapore 608550
