Writing a Motion and Different 
Types of Resolutions
15STRATA
MANAGEMENT
GUIDE
Strata Management Guide
2 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides, published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”), is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and Managing Agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates. 
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to make requisitions for motions, etc).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata titled 
community to facilitate better self-regulation.
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under 
the BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM(SM) 
Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific 
legal rights and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or 
any agency stated in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information 
contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, 
create derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. 
If you wish to use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, 
please seek BCA’s prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in December 2023
Strata Management Guide
3 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Content
Preamble
1. Introduction 4
2. List of Motions to be Included in the Agenda of the First AGM 5
3. List of Motions to be Included in the Agendas of 
Subsequent AGMs (not exhaustive) 6
4. Who Can Make the Requisition and To Whom? 8
5. When to Put Up the Requisition for Motion? 9
6. How to Write a Motion? 10
7. Amending a Motion 12
8. Motions Out of Order 13
9. Resolutions 14
10. Examples of the Types of Resolutions Required for
Specific Applications Stated in the Act 16
Good Practice Example
Icons in this guide
Abbreviations
AGM Annual General Meeting
BMSMA Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004
BM(SM) Building Maintenance (Strata Management)
Regulations Regulations 2005
MA Managing Agent
MCST Management Corporation Strata Title
MC Management Corporation
SP Subsidiary Proprietor
Strata Management Guide
4 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
01 Introduction
1.1 Other than the MC putting up motions, any SP can make a written requisition to the Secretary 
to include a motion in the agenda of a general meeting. A motion is a proposal for a decision 
on a certain matter to be made. If the requisite resolution is passed in respect of a motion, 
the decision becomes binding on all residents in the development.
1.2 Sometimes a resolution may not be required or necessary. Certain matters can be decided 
by the council without the need for a general meeting. Typically, these are matters involving 
the day-to-day running of the estate which the council can decide on. In general, the decision 
of a council on any matter, other than a restricted matter, shall be the decision of the MC 
[section 58(1) of the BMSMA]. 
1.3 As a good practice, the council may consider exercising caution when using the management 
funds and include a motion on such usage in the agenda of a general meeting, for improved 
accountability and estate governance. 
Strata Management Guide
5 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
List of motions to be included for the first AGM:
• To elect a council in accordance with section 531
 where there are more than 3 SPs;
• To determine the amount to be raised for the management fund and the sinking fund;
• To decide whether insurances effected by the owner developer of the development 
should be varied or extended;
• To decide the matters that shall be determined only by the MC at a general meeting;
• To appoint a MA, if the MC so desires, and to determine the powers, duties or 
functions of the MC to be delegated to the MA; and
• To receive and, if considered fit, to adopt the audited annual accounts of the MC 
for the period starting from the date the MC is constituted and ending on a date 
not earlier than 4 months before the first AMG.
List of Motions to be 
Included in the Agenda 
of the First AGM 02
(Section 26(3) of the BMSMA)
1 Section 53 provides that the election of councils of the MC is to be determined in a general meeting, including the 
number of council members not exceeding 14, where a chairperson, a secretary, a treasurer, and a member of council 
is to be appointed. See Annex A of Guide 4 on “Proceedings of a General Meeting” for workflow on Election of council 
member of MC.
2.1 The agenda for the first AGM of an MC constituted in respect of a strata title plan comprising 
any development shall consist of the following motions.
Strata Management Guide
6 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
List of Motions to be 
Included in the Agendas
of Subsequent AGMs 
(not exhaustive)
(Paragraphs 1(3)(b), (ba) and (c) of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
03
 Examples of motions raised by the MC
To be included in the notice and agenda of the general meeting:
 To adopt the audited accounts of the MC for the previous financial year
 To confirm the minutes of the previous general meeting
 To decide on the number of members of the council to be elected
 To elect members of the council
 To determine the amount to be raised for the management fund and the 
sinking fund / To revise the contribution rates towards the management fund 
and sinking fund
 To approve the proposed annual budget of the MC for the new financial year
 To decide if any matter or type of matter is to be determined only by the MC 
in a general meeting
 To appoint an auditor
 To report on the insurance coverage and review the adequacy of the insurance 
of the MC / To decide whether insurance effected by the owner/developer of 
the development is to be varied or extended
 To appoint a MA, if the MC so desires, and to determine the powers, duties or 
functions of the MC that are to be delegated to the MA
3.1 The following are some of the common motions raised by the MC at a general meeting, 
including contribution to management funds and changing of by-laws.
Strata Management Guide
7 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
 Examples of motions raised by the MC
Optional (depending on the situation):
 To pass, add, amend or repeal by-laws
 To install or provide additional facilities or make improvements to the common 
property for the benefit of the SPs constituting the MC, or change the use of 
the facilities
 Other matters (e.g. car parking, improvement works or to determine that interest 
shall not be imposed on unpaid contributions)
 Examples of motions raised by SPs
 To discuss matters pertaining to the interest of individual units, e.g. feedback 
between MC / neighbours
 To discuss matters pertaining to common property 
 Any other restricted matters imposed on MC
3.2 The following are some of the motions that SPs can raise at any general meeting.
Strata Management Guide
8 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Who Can Make
the Requisition
and to Whom? 
(Paragraph 12 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
04
 Good Practice: Tenants who are non-SPs will not be allowed to requisition 
a motion.
Some tenants would like to ask that an issue be tabled at the next general meeting, 
but they are unable to do so as they are not SPs.
What can SPs do?
 Tenants who wish to make a requisition of any motion should request the 
landlord to do so on their behalf. 
Subsidiary Proprietor (SP)
4.1 Any SP who wishes to address their concerns can make a requisition for a motion to be 
included in a general meeting. Written notice must be given to the Secretary who must 
then put the motion on the agenda for the next general meeting. Only motions provided in 
the agenda can be voted on. As a good practice, the written notice must set out the 
motion, name of the SP who made the requisition and an explanatory note.
4.2 If agenda notices of a general meeting have already been sent out, the Secretary shall 
include the motion in the following general meeting.
Strata Management Guide
9 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
When to Put Up the 
Requisition for Motion? 
(Paragraph 12 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
Any SP may require a motion to be included in the agenda 
of the next general meeting, by giving written notice to the 
Secretary. The SP may do so before the notice for the next 
AGM is sent out.
Notice and agenda to be sent 
out 14 or 21 days before the 
AGM, depending on the type 
of resolution. 
AGM
28 November 2023
Next AGM
28 November 2024
05
AGM
Any SP may require a motion to be included in the agenda 
of the next general meeting, by giving written notice to the 
Secretary. The SP may do so before the notice for the next 
EOGM is sent out.
Notice and agenda to be sent 
out 14 or 21 days before the 
EOGM, depending on the type 
of resolution. 
AGM
28 November 2023
Date of EOGM
20 June 2024
EOGM
2 In addition to an AGM (which is typically held annually, or within 15 calendar months from the last general meeting), 
an MC may hold general meetings during the course of a year. These meetings are known as Extraordinary General 
Meetings (EOGMs). An EOGM can be convened at any time to consider any matters of concern to the council of the 
MC or SPs. Please see Guide 3 on “Preparation for a General Meeting” for more information.
3 Please see Guide 3 on “Preparation for a General Meeting” on the notice periods for general meetings.
5.1 The SP may requisition for a motion before the agenda notice of an AGM or Extraordinary 
General Meeting (EOGM) is sent out.2
 It is good practice for the MC to send a circular 
to all SPs notifying them of the tentative date of the next general meeting, so that 
the SPs can make the requisition before the agenda notice is sent out.3
 However, it is not 
a requirement in the BMSMA for the MC to provide advance notice to SPs to requisition 
for motions.
Strata Management Guide
10 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
How to Write 06a Motion? 
Type of motion
Confirm the minutes of the last general meeting
Adopt the Audited Accounts
Management Fund and Sinking Fund
 To consider and if approved, confirm the Minutes of the 5th AGM held 
on 20 December 2022.
 To consider and if approved, adopt the Audited Accounts for the period 
from 1 September 2022 to 31 August 2023.
 To consider and if approved, resolve that the Management Fund 
contribution with effect from 1 January 2023 shall be maintained at / 
increased to $XX.XX per share value per month or any other amount 
as determined at the Meeting, and that the contribution is to be paid 
quarterly in advance on the 1st days of January, April, July and October.
 To consider and if approved, resolve that the Sinking Fund contribution 
with effect from 1 January 2023 shall be maintained at / increased to 
$XX.XX per share value per month or any other amount as determined 
at the Meeting, and that the contribution is to be paid quarterly in 
advance on the 1st days of January, April, July and October.
6.1 A motion should be written clearly and concisely. It must state its intention and should be 
phrased in such a way that allows SPs to vote for or against the motion.
6.2 Persons writing a motion may approach the MAs or lawyers for legal advice on drafting a 
motion, if they are unsure how to go about doing it.
6.3 The phrasing of a motion may differ, depending on the type of motion that is to be tabled. 
Recommendations on how some standard motions may be drafted
Strata Management Guide
11 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Appointment of Auditor
Appointment of Managing Agent
Election of Council of the Management Corporation
Determine the interest for late contributions
Resolution to determine that interest shall not be imposed on
unpaid contributions
 To consider and if approved, resolve that the incoming Council be 
empowered to appoint or terminate an auditor for the MC for the period 
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the MC and to authorise the 
Council to determine the fees and expenses of the Auditor.
 To consider and, if approved, resolve that the incoming Council be 
empowered to appoint or terminate a MA for the MC for the period until 
the conclusion of the next AGM of the MC and to authorise the Council 
to determine the fees and expenses of the MA.
 To consider and, if approved, resolve that the Council be empowered 
to determine which powers, duties and functions of the MC may be 
delegated to the MA.
 To determine the number of members for the 6th Management Council.
 To elect members of the 6th Management Council.
 To empower the incoming Management Council to appoint office bearers 
and bank signatories of the MC.
 To decide what matters or class of matters, if any, shall be determined 
only by the MC in a General Meeting.
 To consider and if approved, resolve that interest at the rate of XX% 
per annum or any rate as determined at the Meeting, calculated on a 
daily basis, be levied if payment for contributions and charges due to 
the MC is received thirty (30) days after the due date.
 To consider and if approved, resolve that interest shall not be 
imposed on unpaid contributions due from the following strata unit(s):
Block/Tower #XX-XX: Interest: $______ 
Strata Management Guide
12 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Amending a Motion 07(Paragraph 1(4) of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
 Good Practice: Amending a motion
The MC intends to pass a special resolution to approve the budget for a 
playground at $X and has given the requisite notice. During the meeting, the 
SP wants to change the proposed budget to $Y.
What should the MC do?
 At the meeting, the MC should pass an ordinary resolution in respect of a motion to 
amend the initial motion to state the budget revision from $X to $Y. The amended 
motion can then be discussed and decided on at the meeting.
7.1 Paragraph 1(4) of the First Schedule to the BMSMA allows a motion to be submitted at 
a general meeting and for an initial motion already included in the agenda notice of the 
general meeting to be amended, provided the amendment does not change the subject 
matter of the initial motion. This is an option for the SPs present, in person or by proxy, 
at the general meeting to collectively decide whether to exercise or use (and not a must 
to exercise or use). The motion to amend an initial motion should be subject to voting by 
SPs at the general meeting. If the requisite resolution is passed for the motion to amend 
the initial motion, the initial motion is amended, and the amended initial motion can then 
be put up for voting. If the requisite resolution is not passed for the motion to amend the 
initial motion, the initial motion is not amended, and the unamended initial motion can then 
be put up for voting. 
Strata Management Guide
13 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Motions Out of Order 08(Paragraph 4 of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
8.1 The Chairperson may rule that a motion submitted at the meeting is out of order if they 
consider that the motion conflicts with the BMSMA, the by-laws or would otherwise be 
unlawful or unenforceable. In this regard, it may also be prudent for the Chairperson to 
consult the MA and / or a lawyer.
Strata Management Guide
14 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
09Resolutions
Type of resolution
Resolution by Consensus
After a general meeting has been held to consider the motion, a period of 12 
weeks has to be given for SPs to cast their votes. At the end of the 12 weeks, 
all SPs in the MC must agree in writing in order for the motion to be passed. 
The motion cannot be supported if even one SP abstains from voting or does 
not agree.
Comprehensive Resolution
Unlike resolution by consensus, this resolution does not require the consent of 
all SPs. The resolution can be passed if the SPs in favour of the motion make up 
at least 90% of the estate’s total share values. However, a period of 12 weeks 
has to be given for SPs to cast their votes as well.
 A resolution by consensus is required in making a decision not to 
insure the buildings in an estate against fire damage. Although the 
buildings should be insured, the MC can decide otherwise with the 
written agreement of all the SPs.
 A proposal to change from an existing single-tier MC system to a twotier MC system can be passed through a comprehensive resolution.
9.1 Resolutions are decisions made by the MC. Owners can decide for themselves how their 
estate should be managed through the passing of resolutions. There are different types 
of resolutions that should be obtained, depending on the importance of the matters to be 
decided. For example, the agreement of all owners is required in a decision not to insure 
the buildings in an estate against damage by fire. On the other hand, the appointment of a 
MA only requires a simple majority. Depending on the motion to be passed, notices must 
be given to each SP listed on the strata roll in accordance with the BMSMA. A motion to 
be decided by an ordinary resolution requires at least 14 days notice before the meeting. 
All other motions require notices of at least 21 days before the meeting. 
9.2 There are six types of resolutions: Ordinary Resolution, Special Resolution, Unanimous 
Resolution, 90% Resolution, Comprehensive Resolution and Resolution by Consensus.
Strata Management Guide
15 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Unanimous Resolution
This type of resolution is decided on the day of the general meeting by SPs who 
are present at the meeting. They can be physically present at the meeting to cast 
their votes or they can vote through proxy. A motion can be passed if all the valid 
votes cast at the meeting are in favour of it. However, the motion cannot be carried 
even if there is one SP who is present at the meeting and who disagrees with it.
90% Resolution
The 90% resolution is also decided on the day of the general meeting by SPs 
who are present at the meeting. In this case, a motion can be passed when 
the SPs present at the general meeting who vote for the resolution constitute 
at least 90% of the share value of all the valid votes cast at the meeting.
 A unanimous resolution is needed to allow the water pipes of another 
estate to pass through the estate.
 A 90% resolution is required to allow an SP to carry out improvement 
works to his unit that increases the floor area of the development. Such 
improvements may include roofing a private enclosed space.
Special Resolution
This resolution is also decided by the SPs who are present at the meeting. The 
resolution is passed when the SPs present at the meeting and who vote for the 
resolution constitute at least 75% of the share value of all the valid votes cast 
at the meeting.
 The decision to make by-laws under section 32 of the BMSMA requires 
a special resolution.
Ordinary Resolution
This resolution is decided by the SPs who are present at the meeting. The resolution 
is passed when SPs are present at the meeting and who vote for the resolution:
• If no poll is taken – the number of valid votes counted for the motion are 
more than the valid votes counted against the motion; or 
• On a poll – the total of the share value of the lots for which valid votes 
are counted for the motion is more than the total of the share value of 
the lots for which valid votes are counted against the motion.
 The decision to appoint a MA can be made through this resolution.
9.3 There are always queries as to which is the correct resolution to be used as the BMSMA 
may not necessarily cover the explicit scenario Even though there are some examples 
of resolutions stated in the BMSMA, the aim of the following section is to provide greater 
clarity on the type of resolution to be used in different scenarios/applications which all 
stakeholders should take note of.
Strata Management Guide
16 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
Examples of the 
Types of Resolutions 
Required for Specific 
Applications Stated 
in the Act
10
S/N Type of Resolution Examples of Application BMSMA 
Section
1 Resolution by 
Consensus
(Section 2(7) of the 
BMSMA)
Use other methods instead of share
value to levy contributions to the 
management fund and sinking fund
41(8)
2 Not to insure buildings against fire damage 70(1)
3 Terminate the MC 84(1)
4
Comprehensive 
Resolution
(Section 2(6) of the 
BMSMA)
Use other methods instead of share
value to levy additional contributions 
where any common property is altered
or any structure is erected on the 
common property
41(6)
5 Change from existing single tier MC to 
two-tier MC 78(1)
6
Alter the boundaries of common property 
and limited common property between a 
MC and sub-MC or between sub-MCs
78(6) & (7)
7 Dissolve sub-MC 84(2)
8
Unanimous Resolution
(Section 2(4) of the 
BMSMA)
Create a restrictive legal agreement
(i.e. covenant) or right of way over 
another’s property (i.e. easement)
35(1)
9
90% Resolution
(Section 2(5) of the 
BMSMA)
Make by-law to confer on the SP the 
exclusive use of common property for a 
period that exceeds three years
33(1)(c)
10
Transfer or lease part of the common 
property for a period that exceeds
three years
34(1)
11
Authorise improvements to the SP’s lot
which increase the gross floor area of
the strata development
37(2)
Strata Management Guide
17 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
S/N Type of Resolution Examples of Application BMSMA 
Section
12
Special Resolution
(Section 2(3) of the 
BMSMA)
Provide additional facilities or make 
improvements to common property 29(1)(d)
13 Make by-laws 32(3)
14
Make by-laws to confer on the SP the 
exclusive use of common property for a 
period between one and three years
33(1)(b)
15 Lease part of the common property for
a period between one and three years 34(2)(a)
16 Create additional common property by,
for example, leasing land 34(3)
17 Amalgamate the common property of
two or more MCs 34(5)
18 Grant rebate in maintenance 
contributions 41(9)
19 Recover contributions in arrears from an 
SP through enforced sale of their strata lot 43(3)
20 Erect structure on common property 
during initial period 50
21 Installation of Electric Vehicle (EV) 
charger owned and operated by the MC 29(1A)
22
Ordinary Resolution
(Section 2(2) of the 
BMSMA)
Effect insurance in respect of any joint 
liability of SPs 71(1)(c)
23
Make by-law to confer on SP the 
exclusive use of common property for a 
period not exceeding one year
33(1)(a)
24
Removal of council member due to 
misconduct, neglect of duty, incapacity or 
failure to carry out duties satisfactorily
54(2)(b)
25 Appointment of MA 66(1)
26 Delegate powers, duties and
functions to MA 67(3)
27
Lease or rent of common property for 
installation of EV charger for a period of 
less than 10 years
34A(1)(a)
Strata Management Guide
18 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
 Good Practice: Including the Type of Resolution in the Motion
When drafting a motion, one could consider including the types of resolutions that 
need to be passed in respect of the motion. Some examples are as follows: 
 To resolve by way of a special resolution and, if approved, that the refundable 
deposit for renovation and bulky delivery within the development be increased 
from S$500 to S$1000.
 To resolve by way of a special resolution and, if approved, the installation of 
new CCTV cameras (non-cabling) at the gourmet pavilion at a budget not 
exceeding S$5000. 
 To resolve by way of an ordinary resolution and, if approved, adopt the statement 
of accounts of the MC prepared for the period from 1 June 2022 to 31 May 
2023 in accordance with section 38(10) of the BMSMA 2004 and the auditor’s 
report on the statement of accounts of the MC.
 Good Practice: Installation of EV Chargers 
MCs may consider installing EV chargers for their development. When doing so, 
MCs could also consider enacting by-laws relating to the use of parking lots for 
electric vehicles. 
For more information on the use of EV chargers, please refer to LTA’s guide on EV.
Strata Management Guide
19 Writing a Motion and Different Types of Resolutions
References:
BMSMA 2004 – Sections 2, 26(3), 58(1) 
First Schedule to the BMSMA 2004
 Good Practice: Improvement to Common Facilities / Common Areas
(A) Installation of CCTV cameras for deterrence of high-rise littering / safety 
of residents etc.
Section 29(1)(d) of the BMSMA provides that the MC, may, when directed by a special 
resolution, carry out improvement or enhancement works on the common property.
The MC may refer to section 29(1)(d) of the BMSMA for guidance, to determine if 
a resolution is to be passed at a general meeting for the proposed work (in respect 
of the installation of CCTVs).
It would also be prudent to refer to relevant legislations like the Personal Data 
Protection Act (PDPA) for guidance. 
When in doubt on the applicability of provisions, the MC should obtain legal advice.
(B) Provision of vending machines, e.g. POPStation
If the MC leases a part of the common property to an external vendor / operator 
to place their vending machine, the MC would need to pass a resolution, and the 
requisite resolution depends on the duration of the lease (ordinary resolution — for 
a lease of up to 1 year; special resolution — for a lease of up to 3 years)
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01,
Singapore 608550
