Water Seepage – What You Should Know
13STRATA
MANAGEMENT
GUIDE
Strata Management Guide
2 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides, published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”), is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates. 
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to make requisitions for motions). 
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation.
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under 
the BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM(SM) 
Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific 
legal rights and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA 
or any agency stated in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information 
contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, 
create derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. 
If you wish to use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, 
please seek BCA’s prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in November 2023
Strata Management Guide
3 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
Content
Preamble
Introduction
Who Should Be Responsible for Maintenance and Repair?
Common Water Seepage Problems 
Steps to Take in the Event of Water Seepage Situations
1.
2.
3.
4.
4
5
6
9
Abbreviations
AGM Annual General Meeting
BMSMA Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004
BM(SM) Building Maintenance (Strata Management)
Regulations Regulations 2005
MA Managing Agent
MCST Management Corporation Strata Title
MC Management Corporation
SP Subsidiary Proprietor
Strata Management Guide
4 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
1.1 Water seepage can either occur within a lot or at a common property. Whether it is a 
burst pipe or a leaking roof which causes the water seepage, the parties affected may 
experience inconvenience and stress, or even tensions with their neighbours. 
Sometimes, it is also challenging to determine the person(s) who is / are responsible for 
the water seepage.
1.2 As the MC is responsible for overseeing and maintaining the common property, the MC is 
in charge of rectifying any defect that occurs in areas that are common property.1
 On the 
other hand, the SP (i.e. the owner of a strata lot / unit) is responsible for keeping their lot 
in good condition, which includes rectifying any defects inside the boundaries of their lot.
(Sections 29(1) and 63 of the BMSMA) 01 Introduction
1 Please refer to Guide 1 on “Concept of Strata Living” and Guide 11 on “Management and Maintenance of Common 
Property” for the definition of ‘common property’.
Strata Management Guide
5 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
Who Should Be 
Responsible for 
Maintenance and Repair?
02
2.1 Water seepage typically may result from multiple issues occurring within or outside a lot. 
As the issues might not be apparent at the outset, we suggest that the affected parties and 
the MC / MA conduct a joint inspection to determine the cause(s) of the water seepage 
and proceed with any repairs required to rectify the water seepage. 
2.2 If necessary, the affected parties can consider engaging an independent consultant or 
licensed plumber to determine the cause(s) of the water seepage, and work together to 
rectify the issue amicably.
2.3 Any damages and monetary compensation arising from water seepage suffered by the SP 
should be settled amicably between the SP and the relevant parties concerned. These are 
private issues not addressed under the BMSMA. Any dispute arising due to water seepage 
may be brought to the Strata Titles Boards (STB) for resolution.
Strata Management Guide
6 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
Common Water 
Seepage Problems 
(Section 108 of the BMSMA)
Inter-Floor Seepage
Floor Slab
Damp Proof
Membrane
Floor Tile Cement Screed
03
Description:
Water seeps from the floor slab of the upper unit to the ceiling of the lower unit
What can be done?
• SPs of both the upper and lower floor units should jointly carry out an investigation to 
establish the cause of the water seepage.
• The affected SP can proceed with the repair works.
• SPs of the upper and lower floor units should decide on their respective share of the 
repair costs.
3.1 Inter-floor water seepage is one of the most common issues in strata-titled developments.
It is usually evidenced by dampness, moisture or water penetration on the interior ceiling 
of a unit. If there is such evidence, it is presumed, unless evidence is produced to show 
otherwise, that the defect is situated within the unit immediately above the unit where 
the evidence of dampness has occurred on the interior ceiling. Therefore, the upper-floor 
SP should jointly investigate the cause with their lower-floor neighbour and proceed with 
any repairs required.
3.2 The following are some of the common water seepage issues that occur in strata-titled 
developments.
Strata Management Guide
7 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
Pipe Leak
Roof Seepage
Uppermost Unit
Parapet
Rooftop
W.C.
Description:
Water seeps through the roof slab to the ceiling of the uppermost unit in a building
What can be done?
• SP of the unit directly below the roof should check if the roof is part of the common 
property, especially for cluster housing and shophouses.
• These SPs may refer to the strata boundary lines of their units in the strata title plan.
• If the roof is part of the common property, the MC shall be responsible for managing 
and maintaining the roof.
Description:
Water leaks from crack along the length of a pipe or from the joints between two or more 
adjoining pipes
What can be done?
• If the leak occurs in a pipe serving two or more units, where the pipe constitutes part of 
the common property, the MC shall be responsible for repairing the leak.
• If the leak occurs in the pipe serving solely a unit, the SP of that unit shall be responsible 
for repairing the leak.
Strata Management Guide
8 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
External Wall Seepage
Windows
Description:
Water seeps from the face of a wall which is exposed to external open space or natural 
elements, to another face of the same wall which forms part of a unit
What can be done?
• If the seepage occurs in a wall in which the wall is part of the common property, the 
MC shall be responsible for repairing the leak.
Description:
Water seeps from a window 
What can be done?
• If the water seepage occurs in respect of louvres, casement windows, sliding windows 
or windows with any movable part, the SP is responsible for its maintenance.
• If the window frame forms part of the common property, the MC should maintain the frame. 
External Face
Internal Face
Strata Management Guide
9 Water Seepage – What You Should Know
References:
BMSMA 2004 – Sections 2, 9, 29, 63, 101, 108
Steps to Take in 
the Event Of Water 
Seepage Situations 04
2 You may refer to Guide 9 on “Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Course of Actions” for the details.
4.1 If the source of the water seepage is within the lot, it is the SP’s responsibility to carry 
out the repair works. In the event of an inter-floor water seepage situation, the upper and 
lower floor unit SPs should come together to investigate the cause of the water seepage 
and take appropriate action.2
4.2 As a good practice, where there is evidence of dampness or water penetration from the 
common area affecting the lot, the MC should first investigate the cause of the water 
seepage. Should the source of water seepage originate from the common property, it 
shall be the duty of the MC to properly maintain and keep the common property in a state 
of good and serviceable repair.
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01,
Singapore 608550
