STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE : 1
Concept of 
Strata Living
Building and Construction Authority
2 | Concept of Strata Living
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the BMSMA and Regulations made under 
the BMSMA (Regulations).
This guide :
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the Act or Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights and duties 
applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated in this guide shall not be 
liable for any reliance on or misinterpretation of any information contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary rights. All 
rights, title and interest in the contents are owned by, licensed to or controlled by BCA and shall 
not be reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise distributed in any 
way, without the prior written permission of BCA. Modification of any of the contents or use of 
the contents for any other purpose will be a violation of BCA’s copyright and other intellectual 
property rights.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
Abbreviations
First published in March 2019
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance (Strata Management) Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) is 
intended to help councils of the management corporations (MCs), subsidiary proprietors (SPs), council 
members and managing agents (MAs) better manage their estates.
The guide will include recommended procedures and good practices to address common issues (e.g. how 
to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community to facilitate 
better self-regulation. 
Building and Construction Authority
Concept of Strata Living | 3
Preamble 
(1) Introduction
(2) Share Value 
(3) Common Property
(4) Management and Sinking Funds 
(5) What are By-Laws
Annex A
4
6
7
8
11
12
Content
Icon in this guide
Good Practice
Building and Construction Authority
4 | Concept of Strata Living
01
Introduction
1.1 A Management Corporation Strata Title (MCST) for a strata development is 
constituted when the strata title plan for the development is lodged with the Chief 
Surveyor and a strata title application is made to the Registrar of Titles, Singapore 
Land Authority (SLA). Each management corporation (MC) is assigned a unique 
strata title plan number. The MC, in respect of a strata title plan, is composed of the 
subsidiary proprietors (SPs) within the specific strata title plan. A SP is a purchaser 
to whom ownership of a unit has been transferred, as shown on the subsidiary strata 
certificate of title.
1.2 The Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act (BMSMA) is designed to 
help strata development in the MC scheme to run effectively. A MC can comprise 
a building or a collection of buildings, where each lot is owned by individuals or 
companies, who collectively own the common property (such as lift lobby, lifts and 
escalators, car park and driveways). 
Building and Construction Authority
Concept of Strata Living | 5
Self-Regulating Framework
1.3 The self-regulating framework of the BMSMA allows SPs in the MCs to decide 
how best to manage the property they share. All SPs (lot owners) in an estate are 
automatically part of the MC and have a right to take part in the decision-making 
process at general meetings. For example, each SP has the right to vote on decisions 
affecting the strata development and enforce their own rules - called by-laws to 
regulate the management of their estate. Equally, SPs have responsibilities, like 
sharing the costs for the upkeep of the common property. The specific obligations of 
the MC are usually performed by the council of the MC or managing agents (MA)
which it appoints1. As required under the BMSMA, the MC will also perform its own 
obligations which are imposed by the Act and Regulations.
BMSMA
Managing 
Agent
Subsidiary 
Proprietor
Owner 
Developer Council
Management Corporation
1.4 The strata title plan for the development, which is registered with the SLA, shows the 
lot owned by an SP. Generally, everything inside a lot belongs to the SP and is under 
the SP’s responsibility2
. Areas outside the unit or lot are usually common property 
which the MC is responsible to maintain and manage.
1.5 The MC manages the common property on behalf of the SPs.
1 See Guide 2 on “Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders” for more information.
2 Unless the items within the lot are expressly defined under Section 2(c) of the BMSMA as common property.
See Annex A.
Building and Construction Authority
6 | Concept of Strata Living
2.1 Each lot is assigned a share value, which represents the proportionate share 
entitlement assigned to each unit in the same development and it determines:
Amount of contribution 
that an SP has to pay to 
the MC for maintaining 
the common properties 
in the development
A) Voting rights3 of 
an SP
B) SP’s share of 
the common 
property
C)
3 See Guide 4 on ‘Proceedings of a General Meeting’ for more information on SPs’ voting rights in relation to different types 
of resolutions.
02
Share Value
 (Section 62 of the BMSMA)
Building and Construction Authority
Concept of Strata Living | 7
3.1 It is important for the SP to be aware of what constitutes common property. The SP 
cannot, without permission of the MC, alter or make changes to common property 
(e.g. install additional awning in a common property wall) without obtaining the 
MC’s approval.
3.2 The strata title plan demarcates areas that fall within and outside of a lot and SPs 
can identify common property by referring to the strata title plan. Areas that are 
not within the plan and that are used by two or more SPs are considered common 
property. Aside from that, there are also certain structures and systems within the lot 
that are also considered common property4
.
3.3 A copy of the strata title plan can be obtained from the SLA at a cost.
4 See Annex A.
03
Common Property
Building and Construction Authority
8 | Concept of Strata Living
(Section 38, 39, 40 and 43 of the BMSMA)
4.2 The contribution is paid into two funds administered by the MC, namely the
management and sinking funds to ensure the smooth running of the estate.
04
Management 
and Sinking Funds
4.1 The SP is required to pay all levies, contributions and fees in proportion to the 
share value of his lot. The SP’s payment of his contribution (e.g. monthly or 
quarterly) to the MC goes towards the maintenance of the common property and 
ancillary expenses. 
Building and Construction Authority
Concept of Strata Living | 9
The sinking fund is to cater for long-term 
future expenditure, such as repainting 
of the estate, upgrading or change of 
major equipment, cyclical maintenance.
4.4 The amount of contribution towards these two funds is decided or reviewed at a 
general meeting of the MC. SPs should make timely payments to the MC to avoid 
incurring interest due to late payments. The MC has the right to recover any unpaid 
contribution from the SP as a debt or recover the contributions by a forced sale of 
the lot.
4.5 MC can vote to introduce a special contribution or levy where there are insufficient 
funds to cover expenses involving major expenditure or unforeseen work. During the 
general meeting, the MC can decide how often levies are collected, for example, 
yearly, half-yearly, quarterly or monthly. For many MCs, paying smaller amounts on 
a more frequent basis may be more affordable than paying larger amounts on an 
annual basis.
The management fund is used to 
manage the day-to-day operational 
expenses, such as water and electricity 
charges for common areas, building 
and public liability insurance, repairs 
and maintenance of common areas.
Management Fund Sinking Fund
Building and Construction Authority
10 | Concept of Strata Living
Good Practice: To prepare a comprehensive budget in advance 
to cater for anticipated major expenditure
For example, MC XXXX is planning to carry out major addition and alteration (A&A) 
works in the next few years to replace existing lifts, swimming pool pumps and carry 
out repainting and water proofing works to the estate.
What can the MC do?
MCs are encouraged to plan ahead and set aside sinking funds for anticipated 
major expenditure in advance. Common examples are large-scale paint jobs, 
replacing the roof or carrying out major A&A works on the common property. 
It is therefore advisable for the MC to set a prudent budget and build up their 
sinking funds gradually for such potential major expenses in addition to the 
cyclical maintenance and replacement works that may become necessary as 
the estate’s infrastructure ages. 
The MC should review this budget regularly to include proposed replacement 
works or expenditures that the MC is made aware of, over time.
The MC may also refer to service plans, previous quotations and receipts of 
items as a guide to the approximate costs of future repairs.
Building and Construction Authority
Concept of Strata Living | 11
5.1 There is a set of by-laws in the Act that every MC is required to comply with the
(Prescribed By-laws). In addition to the Prescribed By-laws, a MC can make 
by-laws that are not in conflict with the Prescribed By-laws or any laws in Singapore.
5.2 For a newly constituted MC, the MC may consider converting house rules to by-laws 
at the first annual general meeting (AGM). By-laws are generally made in relation 
to safety and security measures, details of any common property of which the use 
is restricted, the keeping of pets, parking, garbage disposal, behaviour such as not 
swimming after a certain hour and not making of loud noises after a certain hour. 
By-laws should be appropriate and suitable for the strata scheme concerned.
5.3 The MC, any SP or any occupier is entitled to apply to the court or to the Strata Titles 
Board to enforce a by-law or restrain the breach of a by-law.
References:
BMSMA - Sections 2, 32, 33, 38, 39, 40, 43 
BM(SM) Regulations
(Section 32 and 33 of the BMSMA & 
BM(SM) Regulations)
05
What are By-Laws?
Building and Construction Authority
12 | Concept of Strata Living
Extract of Section 2 of the BMSMA
“common property”, subject to subsection (9), means —
(a) in relation to any land and building comprised or to be comprised in a strata 
title plan, such part of the land and building —
(i) not comprised in any lot or proposed lot in thatstrata title plan; and
(ii) used or capable of being used or enjoyed byoccupiers of 2 or more 
lots or proposed lots;
(b) in relation to any other land and building, such part of the land and 
building — 
(i) not comprised in any non-strata lot; and
(i) used or capable of being used or enjoyed byoccupiers of 2 or more 
non-strata lots within that land or building; or
(c) in relation to any land and building mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b), 
any of the following whether or not comprised in a lot, proposed lot or 
non-strata lot:
(i) the pipes, wires, cables or ducts which are used,or capable of being 
used or enjoyed, by occupiers of 2 or more lots, proposed lots or 
non-strata lots (as the case may be) within that land or building, or are 
used or capable of being used for the servicing or enjoyment of the 
common property;
(ii) the cubic space enclosed by a structure enclosing pipes, wires, cables 
or ducts mentioned in sub-paragraph (i);
(iii) any structural element of the building;
(iv) the waterproof membrane attached to an external wall or a roof;
Annex A
Building and Construction Authority
Concept of Strata Living | 13
Examples
(a) A foundation, load-bearing wall, column or beam, a shear core, strut, ground anchor, 
slab (not including any layer that is the underlayment or the flooring finishing), truss 
and common staircase.
(b) An external wall, or a roof or façade of a building which is used or enjoyed, or 
capable of being used or enjoyed, by occupiers of 2 or more lots, proposed lots or 
non-strata lots.
(c) A garden, sporting or recreational facility, car park or parking area for other vehicles, 
none of which are comprised in a lot, proposed lot or non-strata lot.
(d) A central air-conditioning system and its appurtenances, and a fire sprinkler 
protection system and its appurtenances.
(e) Any chute, pipe, wire, cable, duct or facility for the passage or provision of water, 
sewage, drainage, gas, oil, electricity, telephone, radio, television, garbage, heating 
or cooling systems, or any other similar services.
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550 
