Maintaining MC’s Records | 1
STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE: 10
By-Laws
1 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority Building and Construction Authority
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”) is intended to help subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and 
managing agents (“MAs”) better manage their estates.
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation.
Preamble
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and the Building Maintenance 
(Strata Management) Regulations (“BM (SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM (SM) 
 Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights 
and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated 
in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information contained in this guide 
by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, create 
derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. If you wish to use 
the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, please seek BCA’s prior 
written consent.
Important notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in November 2022
By-laws | 2
Building and Construction Authority
Preamble
Introduction
Types of By-laws
Creation, amendment and repeal of By-laws 
Exclusive Use By-laws
Lodgement of By-laws
House Rules 
Enforcement of By-laws
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
3
4
5
9
10
11
13
Content
Abbreviations
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance(Strata Management) 
Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
Icon in this guide
Good Practice Example
3 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority
By-laws are essentially the means to regulate communal living within a strata-titled 
development and aid in resolving issues that may arise. By-laws are necessary for the 
smooth functioning of day-to-day activities within the development to ensure that 
everyone can live together peacefully.
1.1
Introduction
01
By-laws | 4
Building and Construction Authority
Under the BMSMA, there are two types of by-laws that regulate every parcel 
comprised in a strata title plan: 
(a) Prescribed by-laws as set out in the Second Schedule to the BM (SM) 
Regulations; and 
(b) Additional by-laws that may be made by a management corporation (“MC”). 
Additional by-laws may be made by MCs for the purpose of controlling 
and managing the use or enjoyment of the parcel comprised in the strata 
title plan, or in respect of the exclusive use of the whole or any part of the 
common property, including all or any of the following purposes:
(i) Safety & security measures;
(ii) Details of any common property of which the use is restricted;
(iii) The keeping of pets;
(iv) Parking of vehicles;
(v) Floor coverings;
(vi) Garbage disposal; 
(vii) Behaviour; 
(viii) Architectural & landscape guidelines to be observed by all SPs; and
(ix) Such other matters as are appropriate to the type of strata scheme 
concerned.
The prescribed by-laws apply to every MC, and take precedence over any 
additional by-laws made by the MC. Additional by-laws must not conflict with the 
prescribed by-laws.
Before a by-law is made, MCs should understand why the proposed by-law is 
necessary. Imposing a by-law without understanding the problem may result in a 
lack of improvement or a worsening of the situation.
2.1
2.2
2.3
Types of By-laws
02
5 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority
MCs may adopt additional by-laws and amend the additional by-laws as they 
deem fit. When making additional by-laws, MCs should be mindful of certain 
legislative restrictions.
Additional by-laws made by MCs should not:
(a) Be inconsistent with the prescribed by-laws;
(b) Prohibit or restrict the devolution of a strata lot or a transfer, lease, mortgage 
or other dealing of a strata lot;
(c) Destroy or modify any easement expressly or impliedly created by or under 
the BMSMA or the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967; and
(d) Pertain to matters that are outside the MC’s powers.
MCs may also repeal, add to and/or amend the existing additional by-laws. Most 
additional by-laws can be repealed, amended or created by a special resolution 
passed at a general meeting. 
A special resolution requires, at minimum, 21 days written notice of the motion to 
be passed and support from SPs representing 75% of the share value of all the valid 
votes cast at the general meeting. 
MCs should ensure that any additional by-law passed does not conflict with the 
BMSMA, the prescribed by-laws or any other laws and make sure the by-law is 
expressed clearly and is valid. For example, MCs do not have powers to impose 
penalties or fines for non-compliance with by-laws and should not make by-laws 
providing for imposition of penalties or fines.
A good tip for MCs is to create by-laws with the long term in mind. By-laws should 
include the most fundamental rules only. The MC can make amendments to the bylaws as needed and a resolution should be clear if the amended by-law intends to 
replace a previous by-law. Matters that are prone to changes are better written as 
policies. For example, an MC should not state how often they will have meetings as 
a by-law.
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
Creation, amendment
and repeal of By-laws
(Section 32 of the BMSMA)
03
By-laws | 6
Building and Construction Authority
Another important issue that the MC should consider is to make sure that the bylaws reflect the operational needs of the MC.
MCs should review their by-laws periodically with legal advice at least once every 
two years to ensure that the information they are disseminating is accurate.
Should an MC require advice regarding the drafting of by-laws, the MC should 
consider seeking legal advice to ensure that it is acting within the scope of powers 
provided under the BMSMA. An MC can take into consideration the guidelines 
below, when preparing additional by-laws: 
3.7
3.8
3.9
Dos Don’ts
Start with very basic by-laws 
that cover major issues 
surrounding meetings and use 
of common facilities, and then 
slowly amend those by-laws 
over time.
Note carefully when and how 
by-laws can be amended.
Have a lawyer verify that the 
by-laws are in compliance with 
statutory laws.
Review the by-laws periodically 
and ensure timely amendments 
when necessary.
•
•
•
•
Don’t include a full standard 
operating procedure in the 
by-laws. Instead, refer to a 
standalone standard operating 
procedure housed in a separate 
document that can be quickly 
amended by the MC.
•
Use simple language and 
presentation. Instead of “Shall”, 
“Must” should be used to 
highlight obligations.
Each provision should be concise. 
•
•
Avoid gendered terms, use terms 
such as “the person” in place of 
“he / she” whenever applicable.
•
7 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority
Some examples of common additional by-laws are set 
out below: 
By-laws for Car-Parking 
Example: All SPs, residents and visitors are not allowed to park or leave 
any vehicle at designated car park lots, except with the MC’s approval. 
On approval, the MC will designate a car park lot for the relevant vehicle. 
By-laws for Wheel-Clamping
Example: A wheel-clamping device will be used to immobilise any vehicle 
that is:
a) Unauthorised to be on the premises;
b) Unauthorised to be parked in a particular parking lot; or
c) Found to be parking indiscriminately.
The MC may do all things reasonably necessary for the enforcement of 
this by-law. The MC shall be entitled to apply to the court for an order 
to compel the performance of or restrain the breach of this by-law or to 
recover damages for any loss or injury to person or property arising out 
of the breach of this by-law.
Disposing refuse and other items on the common property
Example: Without the permission of the MC, you should not dispose of 
refuse or other items (such as discarded sofas) on the common property 
that are likely to interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of others in the 
estate. Should any SP or visitor be found to have disposed of refuse 
or other items on the common property, the MC could impose an 
administrative fee of up to $200 to recover the costs for cleaning of the 
common property and removal of the items. 
Keeping of animals
Example: If you keep pets, make sure that the pets do not cause 
disturbance to other residents in the estate, and make sure you clean up 
after your pet. Should any SP, resident or visitor fail to remove their pet’s 
defecation, the MC could impose an administrative fee of up to $200 to 
recover the costs for cleaning and sanitising of the affected areas. 
Behaviour causing nuisance or hazard 
Example: All SP, residents and visitors are required not to make 
excessive noise or behave in a way that disrupts the quiet enjoyment of 
the estate. The MC can enforce by-laws through the Strata Titles Boards 
or the court.
By-laws | 8
Building and Construction Authority
You can approach your neighbour and let them know your concerns 
regarding the matter. Normally, they are not even aware that their conduct 
has become a nuisance to their neighbours.
If the conduct continues, you can write to the secretary of the MC or the 
managing agent, to request their help to look into the matter. The MC 
can serve a notice on the relevant resident if there are relevant by-laws 
in place.
You can also write to the secretary of the MC to table the matter for 
discussion at any upcoming general meeting and decide how this issue 
should be best managed. For example, the MC can consider passing a 
by-law to require a resident to ensure that second-hand tobacco smoke 
within their lot does not cause a nuisance, danger or hazard to other 
residents within individual lots and the common property.
The MC sometimes deals with complaints about nuisance such as excessive noise 
or second-hand tobacco smoke emanating from individual lots. These issues are 
often regulated under by-laws. The MC may enforce by-laws through the Strata 
Titles Boards or the court to ensure the nuisance is managed. 
Good Practice: Ways to Avoid Causing Nuisance or Hazard 
to People in the Estate
What The MC and Residents Can Do:
9 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority
Apart from by-laws governing the behaviour of residents and guests, the MC can 
make by-laws that give SPs, for a certain period of time, exclusive use and enjoyment 
or special privileges in respect of the whole or any part of the common property.
The requirements for making exclusive use by-laws are stricter than those for making 
additional by-laws. An exclusive use by-law may be attached to a lot only if the 
following resolutions are passed:
4.1
4.2
Exclusive use
By-laws
(Section 33 of the BMSMA)
04
Period of granting a SP exclusive use 
of common property
Less than a year Ordinary resolution
Resolution required to be passed at 
a general meeting
Between one year and three years Special resolution
More than three years 90 percent resolution
By-laws | 10
Building and Construction Authority
5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
MCs shall lodge the by-laws created, and any amendment of or addition to or repeal 
of the additional by-laws with the Commissioner of Buildings within forty-five (45) 
days upon passing the special resolution approving the making of such by-law, 
amendment, addition to or repeal of any existing additional by-law.
The additional by-law(s) and any amendment of or addition to or repeal of the 
additional by-laws will only take effect after a copy has been certified as a true 
copy under the MC’s seal, and lodged with the Commissioner of Buildings within 45 
days from passing the resolution approving the making of such by-law, amendment, 
addition to or repeal of any existing additional by-law.
To lodge the additional by-laws with the Commissioner of Buildings, the following 
documents are required:
(a) By-laws lodgement form*; 
(b) MC covering letter stating the intention of lodging the by-laws;
(c)	 A certified true copy of the additional by-laws sealed with the seal of
the MC and signed by either:
(i) 2 members of the council as the MC determines; or
(ii) The secretary and any other member of the council if there is no 
such determination, and
(d) Extract of the minutes of the general meeting at which the additional 
by-laws are passed. 
The Commissioner of Buildings will give an acknowledgement to the MC if the 
lodgement is in order.
The fee for obtaining a copy of the by-laws is prescribed in the BM (SM) Regulations. 
MCs shall make available the by-laws at the management office for viewing by SPs at 
no cost if a copy of the full set of by-laws is not displayed on the MC’s notice board.
Lodgement
of By-laws 
(Section 32 of the BMSMA)
05
* The by-law lodgement form is available for download on BCA’s website.
11 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority
House Rules are generally enacted by the developer for the management and 
operation of common property before the MC is constituted. Developers should 
be mindful that the House Rules drafted do not discourage social cohesion and are 
not draconian or unfair. House Rules should not be inconsistent with the BMSMA. 
Although there are no legislative requirements governing the making of House Rules 
and they are not enforceable, House Rules set the basic rules in place until the MC 
is formed. 
Developers are encouraged to convert House Rules into additional by-laws at 
the first AGM for continuity purposes. For the additional by-laws to take effect, 
the additional by-laws have to be lodged with the Commissioner of Buildings as 
described in section 4 above. 
An MC may make House Rules relating to the use and enjoyment of only the common 
property. Where the collection of fees is involved, it is suggested to put such rules 
in the by-laws. If the House Rules are essential, it is recommended to convert the 
House Rules into by-laws at a general meeting with the requisite resolution. 
6.1
6.2
6.3
House Rules
06
By-laws | 12
Building and Construction Authority
Examples of House Rules
House Rules for Visitors driving in
Example: All visitors driving into the premises must register at the 
guardhouse with their particulars and the unit they are visiting. They are 
to park their vehicle at the white lots of basement 1 carpark only.
House Rules for Pets
Example: No pets are allowed in the swimming pool area, jacuzzi, 
gymnasium, tennis courts, squash courts and function/multipurpose rooms.
House Rules are made through the MC’s power “to do all things reasonably 
necessary for the performance of duties and for the enforcement of the bylaws” according to Section 29 of the BMSMA. Some examples of House Rules 
are set out below: 
6.4
13 | By-laws
Building and Construction Authority
References:
BMSMA - Sections 32, 33
BM (SM) Regulations 
The MC, SP, mortgagee in possession, lessee or occupier of a strata development 
lot may apply to the Strata Titles Boards or the court for an order to compel a 
person to comply with the by-laws, restrain the breach of any by-laws or to recover 
damages due to the breach of by-laws.
Please note the following matters regarding the MC’s powers in respect of breaches 
of any by-law:
(a) MCs cannot impose fines / forfeit deposits paid;
(b) MCs may recover administrative fees to compensate for costs incurred as a 
result of the breach of any by-law;
(c) MCs must be impartial when enforcing by-laws; and
(d) MCs do not have the power to ban SPs from using the facilities in the 
development, unless the MC applies for and obtains a court order to do so.
MCs may consider taking the following steps in the event of a breach of any by-law:
(a) Resolve the problem by communicating with the relevant SP or occupier. 
(b) MC can issue the SP or occupier a formal written notice, requiring the SP or 
occupier to comply with the by-law.
(c) If the issue persists, MC can apply to the Strata Titles Boards / court for an 
order to enforce the by-law.
7.1
7.2
7.3
07
Enforcement
of By-laws 
(Section 32 of the BMSMA)
By-laws | 14
Building and Construction Authority
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550
