STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE : 2
Role and 
Responsibility of 
Stakeholders
Building and Construction Authority
2 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the BMSMA and Regulations made under 
the BMSMA (Regulations).
This guide :
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the Act or Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights and duties 
applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated in this guide shall not be 
liable for any reliance on or misinterpretation of any information contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary rights. All 
rights, title and interest in the contents are owned by, licensed to or controlled by BCA and shall 
not be reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise distributed in any 
way, without the prior written permission of BCA. Modification of any of the contents or use of 
the contents for any other purpose will be a violation of BCA’s copyright and other intellectual 
property rights.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
Abbreviations
First published in March 2019
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance (Strata Management) Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) is 
intended to help councils of the management corporations (MCs), subsidiary proprietors (SPs), council 
members and managing agents (MAs) better manage their estates.
The guide will include recommended procedures and good practices to address common issues (e.g. how 
to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community to facilitate 
better self-regulation. 
Building and Construction Authority
Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders | 3
Content
Preamble
(1) Introduction
(2) Management Corporation
(3) Council Members
(4) SPs and Occupiers
(5) Managing Agent
4
5
6
11
13
Icon in this guide
Good Practice
Building and Construction Authority
4 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
01
Introduction
1.1 The BMSMA is intended to provide a legal framework for management corporations 
(MCs) to self-govern and manage domestic affairs within their estates.
1.2 The Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act (BMSMA) empowers 
MCs to make decisions concerning their development for the benefit of all SPs. 
Decisions are made by resolution (there are six types) at general meetings, or 
otherwise by the council of the MC. The council is responsible for the day-to-day 
operational matters of the MC.
Building and Construction Authority
Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders | 5
(Section 24 and 29 of the BMSMA)
02
Management 
Corporations
2.1 The MC should hold regular meetings for subsidiary proprietors (SPs) to decide 
on issues affecting the estate. The MC is responsible for the overall management of 
the estate, including the following:
a) Managing the management and sinking funds;
b) Obtaining insurance for the estate’s buildings and against the liability and 
expenses for errors and omissions made by any council member;
c) Making by-laws and issuing reminders to comply;
d) Keeping of records;
e) Carrying out repairs and maintenance of common property;
 f) Appointing a managing agent (MA) to assist in the day-to-day running of 
the estate;
g) Keeping up-to-date with and following all relevant laws;
h) Appointing an auditor to audit the books and accounts of the MC; and 
 i) Managing contracts with service providers.
Building and Construction Authority
6 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
03
Council 
Members
3.1 The MC is required to have a council which can make decisions on behalf of the MC 
except for restricted matters. 
3.2 The MC is required to elect council members to enable quicker decision-making on 
day-to-day operational matters. The role of the council is to:
 a) Act as the managing body for the MC,
 b) Make daily decisions that enable the MC to operate smoothly, and
 c) Run and preside over the general meeting.
3.3 Nonetheless, the council is still subject to restrictions placed upon it by the SPs in 
a general meeting. For instance, the SPs in a general meeting can decide that for 
certain matters, only they (and not the council) can determine such matters.
3.4 The council members are generally elected at Annual General Meetings (AGMs) 
and up to 14 council members can be elected. Voting in the election is on a onevote-per-lot basis. 
3.5 All council members will retire from office at the conclusion of the next AGM, 
but a retiring council member will be eligible for re-election based on the 
eligibility criteria.
(Section 53 to 58 of the BMSMA)
Building and Construction Authority
Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders | 7
Eligibility Requirements Contribution Arrears
At least 21 years old and an 
SP of a lot
The SP’s lot must not be in arrears of any 
contributions or any moneys levied 3 days 
before the election
The Company’s lot must not be in arrears 
of any contributions or any moneys levied 3 
days before the election
At least 21 years old and 
a non-SP nominated by a 
Company that is the SP of 
a lot
The Company’s lot must not be in arrears 
of any contributions or any moneys levied 
3 days before the election. There is no 
requirement that this nominated SP’s lot 
must not be in arrears of any contributions 
or any moneys levied three days before 
the election
At least 21 years old and 
an SP nominated by a 
Company that is the SP of 
a lot
The nominating SP’s lot must not be in 
arrears of any contributions or any moneys 
levied 3 days before the election
The nominating SP’s lot must not be in 
arrears of any contributions or any moneys 
levied 3 days before the election 
At least 21 years old and a 
non-SP, but is a member of 
the immediate family of an 
SP of a lot and is nominated 
for election by that SP
At least 21 years old and 
an SP, and is nominated for 
election by an immediate 
family member who is also 
an SP of a lot
Eligibility Criteria for Election as Council Members 
(Section 53 of the BMSMA)
3.6 A person is eligible for election as a council member as long as he is an individual 
of at least 21 years of age and is:
 a) An SP of a lot;
 b) A non-SP nominated by a Company that is the SP of a lot; or
 c) A non-SP, but is a member of the immediate family of an SP and is nominated 
for election by that SP.
Building and Construction Authority
8 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
Secretary: arranges meetings by providing advanced 
notice, prepares and distributes meeting agendas 
and minutes, and maintains the strata roll. In addition, 
the Secretary enables the inspection of documents 
in accordance to Section 47 of the BMSMA, answers 
communications addressed to the MC, convenes 
meetings of the council and of the MC and attends to 
matters of an administrative or secretarial nature.
Chairperson: runs all the meetings of the MC and rules 
whether a particular motion is in order. The Chairperson 
also oversees both the council and general meetings.
Treasurer: notifies owners of contributions levied, 
receives, acknowledges, banks and accounts for any 
money paid to the MC, and keeps accounting records 
and prepares the financial statements of the MC. In 
addition, the Treasurer prepares any certificate applied 
for under Section 47(1)(c) of the BMSMA.
No individual is to be elected or appointed to hold office as the treasurer for more 
than two consecutive terms2.
1, 2 MCs with 10 or fewer lots are exempt from this restriction.
Duties of Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer of Council 
(Section 47, 53, 56 and 57 of the BMSMA)
3.7The office bearers (Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer) can also be elected at 
general meetings or appointed at the 1st council meeting. An individual council 
member cannot take up more than one position1.
3.8Office bearers usually perform the following duties:
Building and Construction Authority
Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders | 9
Early Removal of a Council Member from Term 
(Section 54 and 55 of the BMSMA)
3.9 A person appointed to the office of Chairperson, Secretary or Treasurer of the MC 
must hold office until:
 a) He ceases to be an SP;
b)The SP who nominated him (if any) ceases to be an SP, or notifies the MC in 
writing that the person’s office as a council member is vacated;
 c) He fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the council without permission;
 d) A written notice of his resignation is received by the MC;
 e) Another person is appointed by the council or by the MC in a general meeting 
to hold that office, whichever first happens;
 f) He dies;
 g) He becomes mentally disordered and incapable of managing himself or herself 
or his affairs; or
 h) He is convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty.
3.10 A council member can also be removed:
 a) By the MC through a majority vote at a general meeting;
 b) Without a general meeting if he owes any sums to the MC for more than 
 3 months; or
 c) If he fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the council without the 
council’s permission or reasonable grounds to do so.
3.11 An office bearer must not resign his office until:
a)A council meeting is first convened for the purpose of appointing another 
person to fill his vacancy; or
b)A general meeting is first convened for the purpose of electing another person 
to fill his vacancy.
Building and Construction Authority
10 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
Good Practice: Replacement of vacant seats in the council 
(in a single use development)
If a council member resigns, the council can appoint any person eligible for 
election to fill the vacancy. Whilst it is not a requirement under the BMSMA, as a 
matter of good governance, the council could put a notice on the notice board 
to invite interested persons to notify the council secretary or the MA of their 
interest to join the council. Ultimately, the council decides on the person to fill 
the vacant post.
What can the MC do?
If there is more than one eligible person who is keen to fill up the vacant 
post, the council can decide on the office holder by majority council vote.
If no eligible person expresses interest in filling the vacancy, a council 
meeting may still be convened by the remaining council members and they 
can decide who fills the vacancies by a majority vote.
The council should update the Commissioner of Buildings of the status of 
the composition of council members, regardless of whether a replacement 
is found to fill the vacancy. This should also be recorded in the minutes of 
the council meeting. 
3.12 If an MC carries on business without any Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer for 
more than 6 months, every SP who knows that the MC is carrying on business in that 
manner must be jointly and severally liable for the payment of all the debts of the 
MC contracted during the period after those 6 months or, as the case may be, the 
part of the debt that was accrued during that period.
Building and Construction Authority
Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders | 11
(Section 30, 32, 37 and 63 of the BMSMA and BM(SM) Regulations)
04
SPs and 
Occupiers
4.1 Under the BMSMA, the SP, mortgagee in possession, lessee and occupier have 
various duties. This section lists out the salient duties.
SP, Mortgagee in Possession, Lessee or Occupier
 a) Understand and observe the by-laws of the MC;
 b) Ensure the use of the lot in a manner does not interfere with any support or 
shelter provided in that lot for other areas in the development, the passage 
or provision of water, sewerage, drainage, gas, electricity, garbage, artificially 
heated or cooled air and other services (including telephone, radio and 
television services) through or by means of any pipe, wire, cable or duct; and
 c) Use or enjoy the lot or common property in such a manner that does not cause 
a nuisance or hazard to occupiers of other lots.
SP
 d) Requisition a motion in a general meeting to obtain a 90% resolution from the 
MC if he intends to carry out improvements or additions to his lot which may 
result in an increase in the total gross floor area of the entire development;
 e) Apply to the MC if he intends to carry out improvements or additions to his lot 
which may affect the appearance of any building in the development;
f)Jointly carry out an investigation to establish the cause of any inter-floor leak 
and proceed with the repair works. Both parties should resolve the cost and 
methods of repair privately. It will be presumed that the leak originates from 
the upper floor unit unless the upper floor unit owner or occupier can prove 
otherwise; and
 g) Comply with any notice served by a public authority in relation to the 
maintenance of his lot. If he fails to respond to such a notice, the MC may 
arrange to have the required works carried out and recover the costs incurred 
from the SP, mortgagee in possession, lessee or occupier as a debt owed to 
the MC.
Building and Construction Authority
12 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
Good Practice: Ways of Resolving Disputes with 
Neighbours in Your Estate
Over and above the prescribed by-laws, all MCs should have guidelines or
by-laws that deal with issues that affect the SPs e.g. the parking of bicycles or 
the placement of personal objects on common areas. The MC can also install 
bicycle racks for residents to park their bicycles. For example, your neighbour 
may have placed his children’s new bicycles or his gardening tools along the 
common corridor. This has caused some inconvenience to you and created some 
tension between you and your neighbour. 
What can you do?
You can approach your neighbour and let him know of your concerns 
regarding the matter. 
You can write in to the secretary of MC or the MA to request their help to 
look into the matter.
You can also write to the secretary of the MC to table this matter at any 
upcoming general meeting of the MC for residents to discuss and decide 
how this issue should be best managed.
You may also seek resolution through dispute resolution channels 
such as mediation, and can contact the Community Mediation Centre 
(www.mlaw.gov.sg/content/cmc) or the Community Disputes Resolution 
Tribunal (https://www.statecourts.gov.sg/CDRT/Pages/Filing-a-Claim-inthe-CDRT.aspx) for assistance.
 3 See “Calling for the General Meeting” in Guide 3 on “Preparation for a General meeting”.
 4 See Guide 5 on “Proceedings of council meeting”.
Attend Meetings 
4.2 All SPs have a right to take part in the decision-making process at general meetings. 
Therefore, SPs are encouraged to attend general meetings3
 to participate in 
important discussions and vote on matters that affect their interests.
4.3 An SP may also attend council meetings4. However, if he wishes to raise any issues 
at the council meeting, he must seek the permission of the council to do so. These 
meetings may also provide SPs a platform to facilitate the resolution of disputes on 
neighbourly or estate matters through discussion or mediation. Occupiers who wish 
to witness council meetings may attend if the Chairperson gives them permission 
to be present.
Building and Construction Authority
Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders | 13
(66 to 68 of the BMSMA)
05
Managing Agent
5.1 The MC may appoint a managing agent (MA) to help manage the estate. The MA 
can be engaged by the SPs at a general meeting, or by the council to perform the 
daily operational and administrative works for a term of up to three years. Residents 
who need assistance for matters relating to the estate can also approach the MA.
5.2 The MC is encouraged to appoint MAs that are accredited by industry associations. 
MAs who are accredited under such accreditation schemes are likely to possess the 
knowledge and competency to provide advices on strata management to the MCs. 
5.3 The engagement or termination of a MA is a private contractual arrangement 
between the MC and the MA.
Duties and Liabilities of MA
5.4 The MC should ensure that the scope of the responsibilities and service performance 
levels are clearly spelt out in the service agreement with the appointed MA. 
Importantly, the MC should implement some form of guideline or internal procedure 
so that they are kept aware of the performance of the MA. The MC may, in writing, 
delegate to the appointed MA part or all of its powers, duties and functions. This 
can be done by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting. These duties 
may include performing the functions of the Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer 
or of the whole council. 
5.5 However, the MC cannot allow the appointed MA to further delegate these duties 
to others or make a decision on a restricted matter that can be determined only by 
the MC in a general meeting. 
5.6 The appointed MA, in exercising the delegated duty of the MC, can be held liable 
for any contravention of the BMSMA as if it had been committed by the MC. 
The appointed MA also cannot canvass for votes relating to any election of the 
council members.
Building and Construction Authority
14 | Role and Responsibility of Stakeholders
Good Practice: Reviewing the MA’s services
The MA’s expected service level and performance standards should be spelt out 
in the service agreement. Any non-conformance or shortfall in the performance 
of the MA should be addressed in accordance with the specific terms and 
conditions of the service agreement. For example, some SPs are unhappy with 
the performance of the MA staff in dealing with queries by the council and SPs. 
What can SPs do?
SPs can try communicating with the MA by precisely identifying what the 
issues are. The MA may be acting on the instructions of the council or there 
may be a misunderstanding which could be further clarified. 
SPs can provide their input and feedback to the MA’s supervisor if there are 
grounds for concern. 
SPs can raise their concerns to the council, and the council may decide to act 
in response to address such concerns.
SPs can requisition a motion5
 to raise their concerns on the performance of 
the MA during the annual review of the AGM when the appointment of MA 
is discussed.
References:
BMSMA - Sections 47, 48, 53 to 58, 66 to 68 
BM(SM) Regulations
5 All SPs are allowed to requisition a motion to raise their concerns.
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550 
