STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE : 3
Preparation for a
General Meeting
Building and Construction Authority
2 | Preparation for a General Meeting
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the BMSMA and Regulations made under 
the BMSMA (Regulations).
This guide :
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the Act or Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights and duties 
applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated in this guide shall not be 
liable for any reliance on or misinterpretation of any information contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary rights. All 
rights, title and interest in the contents are owned by, licensed to or controlled by BCA and shall 
not be reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise distributed in any 
way, without the prior written permission of BCA. Modification of any of the contents or use of 
the contents for any other purpose will be a violation of BCA’s copyright and other intellectual 
property rights.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
Abbreviations
First published in March 2019
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance (Strata Management) Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) is 
intended to help councils of the management corporations (MCs), subsidiary proprietors (SPs), council 
members and managing agents (MAs) better manage their estates.
The guide will include recommended procedures and good practices to address common issues (e.g. how 
to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community to facilitate 
better self-regulation. 
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 3
Preamble 
(1) Introduction
(2) Calling for The Meeting
(3) Asking for a Motion to be Included in the Agenda 
of an Upcoming General Meeting
(4) Documents to Prepare
(5) Notice Period
(6) Methods of Sending Agenda Notice
of General Meeting
Annex A
Content
4
5
9
10
12
13
16
Icons in this guide
Good Practice Example
Building and Construction Authority
4 | Preparation for a General Meeting
01
Introduction
1 For example, the BMSMA requires a general meeting to be held only on the 15th day or later after the notice of general meeting is 
served on the SPs.
1.1 The annual general meeting (AGM) of the management corporation (MC) is an 
important event as it allows all subsidiary proprietors (SPs) to participate in the 
discussion and decision making of the estate. At each AGM, all SPs are entitled to 
decide on important matters such as the election of management council, setting 
of the maintenance contributions, selection of vendors, review of vendors’ services, 
and any matters tabled for discussion. Given the significance, all SPs should make 
an effort to attend such general meetings personally and be involved in the affairs 
of the estate. 
1.2 It is necessary to ensure that there is sufficient preparation before a general meeting 
is convened. Some examples of preparation include sending out the notice of the 
agenda within the statutory timeframe1 and obtaining financial statements from 
the appointed auditors punctually.
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 5
Example
16 April 2018 16 April 2019 16 May 2019
Date of constitution 
of MCST
End of initial 
12-month period
Latest date to 
hold 1st AGM
Initial Period 1 month
OR
b) If there is a written request from SPs. SPs have the right to send a written 
request to the developer to convene the first AGM. However, the requisition 
can only be made by a registered SP to whom the developer has transferred 
the ownership of the unit to [i.e. Subsidiary Strata Title Certificate (SSCT)3] has 
2 The initial period starts on the constitution date of the MCST and can last for a maximum period of 12 months. The initial period can 
end earlier if the first AGM is conducted before the 12 months are up.
3 Upon registration of the Transfer, the Subsidiary Strata Certificate of Title (SSCT) issued for the unit will reflect the name of the 
owner as the registered subsidiary proprietor.
02
Calling for 
The Meeting
2.1 The developer must hold the AGM in accordance with the requirements below: 
EITHER:
a) Within 13 months after the date of constitution of the MC2. 
First Annual General Meeting
(Section 26 of the BMSMA)
Building and Construction Authority
6 | Preparation for a General Meeting
Example
Receipt of requisition to 
convene 1st AGM
Date of constitution 
of MCST
2.2 If the developer fails to hold the first AGM within the stipulated time frame, any SP 
or mortgagee in possession of any lot in the MC may apply to the Commissioner of 
Buildings to appoint a person to convene the first AGM.
Annual General Meeting Other Than the First Annual General Meeting
(Section 27 of the BMSMA)
2.3 The MC must hold an AGM in every calendar year. However, the period between 
two AGMs held in two separate calendar years cannot exceed 15 months.
Example 1
16 April 2018 16 July 2019
15 months commencing from 17 April 2018 to 16 July 2019
8 weeks commencing after 
31 July 2018
Latest date to hold 
next AGM
Latest date to 
hold 1st AGM
16 April 2018 31 July 2018 25 September 2018
already been issued to the name of the SP). The developer must then convene the 
first AGM within 8 weeks upon receiving the written request. The request can only 
be made by SPs who together hold at least 10% of the total number of strata lots 
in the development. 
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 7
Example 2
16 November 2018
Date of 
preceding AGM
AGM cannot be 
held on 16 Feb 2020
15 months commencing from 16 November 2018 to 16 February 2020
Date of the next AGM cannot 
fall beyond the calendar year of 
2019. Therefore, the next AGM 
must be held on or before 31 
December 2019.
Extraordinary General Meeting
(Section 27(2) of the BMSMA and Paragraph 14 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
2.4 In addition to an AGM, an MC may hold general meetings during the course of a 
year. These meetings are known as Extraordinary General Meetings (EOGMs). 
An EOGM can be convened at any time to consider any matters of concern to the 
council of the MC or SPs.
2.5 There are two ways to convene EOGMs:
a) By majority vote of the council; or
b) By serving a requisition on the Secretary of the council asking for the EOGM to 
be held.
2.6 The MC must hold an EOGM within 6 weeks after the Secretary receives a 
requisition for an EOGM.
31 December 2019 16 February 2020
Latest date to 
hold next AGM
Although 16 February 2020 is 15 
months from 16 November 2018, 
the next AGM cannot fall beyond 
the calendar year of 2019 because 
the MCST must hold at least one (1) 
AGM every calendar year.
Building and Construction Authority
8 | Preparation for a General Meeting
2.7 The requisition must be signed by one or more persons who are entitled to vote4
and they must represent:
a) 20% or more of the total share value of all lots in the development; or
b) 25% or more of the total number of SPs in the development.
2.8 The requisition must list the matters that are to be discussed during the meeting 
and it is recommended that the requisition includes the details of the matters that 
are to be tabled. Please refer to a sample of the requisition notice in Annex A. 
2.9 If the MC does not proceed to convene the EOGM within 14 days after the 
date the requisition is served on the secretary, the persons proposing the 
requisitions (requisitionists) may convene the meeting. In the alternative, any 
one requisitionist that represents more than 50% of the total voting rights of all 
the requisitionists may also convene the meeting. A meeting convened under this 
paragraph must be within 3 months from the date the requisition is served on 
the secretary.
Example
16 April 2018 30 April 2018
MCST did not take steps to 
convene EOGM, for example,
by issuing notice of meeting
Date of 
depositing 
requisition
Latest date for 
requisitionists to 
hold EOGM
14 days commencing 
17 April 2018
4 See Guide 4 on ‘Proceedings of a General Meeting’ for information on when SPs are entitled to vote.
16 July 2018
3 months commencing from 17 
April 2018 to 16 July 2018
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 9
3.1 Any SP may at any time request in writing for a motion to be included in the agenda 
of the next upcoming general meeting. Written notice must be given to the Secretary 
of the council. The Secretary must include the motion in the agenda for the next 
general meeting.
3.2 However, if the SP asks for a motion to be included only after the MC has already 
served notice for the upcoming general meeting, that motion cannot be part of the 
agenda of the upcoming general meeting. The MC must include that motion in the 
agenda of the subsequent general meeting. SPs are therefore encouraged to make 
their requests early.
(Paragraph 12 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
03
Asking for a Motion to be 
Included in The Agenda of an 
Upcoming General Meeting
Good Practice: Raising a Motion
What can the MC do?
MCs can put up a notice on the notice board to inform SPs of the proposed 
dates of the upcoming AGM for the calendar year so that SPs can submit 
any motions they want to include in the agenda.
Building and Construction Authority
10 | Preparation for a General Meeting
Adoption of the accounts for a period ending on a date within 4 
months from the general meeting;
Confirmation of the minutes of the last AGM;
Decision on the number of members of the council to be elected;
Election of members of the council;
Determination of the amount to be raised for the management fund and 
the sinking fund;
Approval of the proposed annual budget of the MC for the new 
financial year;
Decision if any matter or type of matter is to be decided only by the 
MC in general meeting;
Appointment of an auditor;
4.1 The following documents should be prepared for the AGM (where applicable):
a) An agenda notice must be given to each SP listed on the strata roll. The agenda 
notice must include the following:
i. Specify the place, day and time for the meeting;
 ii. Attach a copy of the minutes of the latest preceding general meeting(s) 
[if a copy has not been previously given]; and
 iii. Include each proposed motion to be considered at the meeting for the 
 following items:
(Paragraph 1 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
04
Documents 
to Prepare
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 11
Report on the insurance coverage and review the adequacy of the 
insurance of the MC;
Decision on the termination of any managing agent (MA) or for the 
continuation of the MA for the next ensuing financial year; and
Any other motions requested by any SP in writing and served on the 
Secretary before the agenda notice is sent out.
b) It is recommended that the documents listed below are included with the 
agenda notice:
i.Budget expenditure for the coming financial year and the proposed 
contribution rates for management fund and sinking fund;
 ii. Copy of proxy form5 ;
 iii. Copy of authorisation letter (for companies assigning representatives to 
attend the general meeting);
 iv. Copy of nomination form for the election of council member(s); and
 v. Explanatory notes on the proceedings of the general meeting.
5 The BMSMA requires every proxy form to follow the format set out under First Schedule.
Building and Construction Authority
12 | Preparation for a General Meeting
Agenda Notice
5.1 If all the motions in the agenda are to be decided by ordinary resolution only, the 
notice and general meeting documents must be served at least 14 days before 
the date of the meeting. The general meeting can only be convened on the 15th day 
(or later) after the notice is served.
5.2 If there is any motion in the agenda that needs to be decided by special resolution, 
unanimous resolution, 90% resolution, comprehensive resolution or resolution by 
consensus, the notice and general meeting documents must be served at least 21 
days before the date of the meeting. The general meeting can only be convened 
on the 22nd day (or later) after the notice is served.
List of Names of Persons Entitled to Vote6 in General Meeting
(Paragraph 1 and 7 of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
5.3 The Secretary of the MC must put up a list of the names, and the lots represented, 
of the persons who are entitled to vote at a general meeting on the notice board 
(maintained on the common property) at least 48 hours before the general 
meeting. All persons named in this list must have paid up any arrears they owe 
to the MC under the BMSMA, at least 3 days before the commencement of the 
general meeting.
6 See Guide 4 on ‘Proceedings of a General Meeting’ for information on when SPs are entitled to vote.
(Paragraphs 1(1) and 1(5) of First Schedule to the BMSMA 
read together with Sections 2(2) to (7) of the BMSMA)
05
Notice Period
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 13
6.1 The agenda notice of a general meeting must be sent to the SPs in the MC by:
a) Facsimile Transmission
 If a notice is sent by fax, it will be considered served only when there is an 
acknowledgement by electronic or other means showing that the notice has been 
received at the destination the fax was sent to.
b) Pre-Paid Registered Post
 If a notice is sent by pre-paid registered post, it will be assumed to be served on the 
3rd working day after the day the notice was posted.
c) Electronic Mail (email)
 If a notice is sent by email, the notice must be sent to the last email address given 
to the MC by the SP.
However, if the notice is sent by email, it must also be posted to the SP’s address 
for service or to the SP’s last known place of residence or business.
 Any notice sent by email, is deemed to be duly served when it is capable of being 
retrieved by the SP at the email address given by the SP. 
d) All other types of post except Pre-Paid Registered Post
 If a notice is sent by ordinary post, it will be assumed to have been served on the 
4th working day after the day the notice was posted.
e) Physically Delivering to or Affixing on the Front Door of Any Lot
The notice is considered served on the date of such delivery or affixing of the notice 
at that lot. The date of delivery or affixing must be stated in the notice. 
(Section 129 of the BMSMA and Section 2 of the Interpretation Act (Chapter 1))
06
Methods of Sending Agenda 
Notice of General Meeting
Building and Construction Authority
14 | Preparation for a General Meeting
If all motions in the agenda are to be decided by ordinary resolution only, 
the general meeting notice must be served 14 days before the date of 
the AGM.
The MC plans to convene the next AGM on 31 January. The MC decides to 
send out the notice by ordinary post. The calendars below illustrate the timeline 
requirements that general meeting notices have to fulfill.
Example: When to give notice of an AGM
Sun
31-day Month
Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat
1 2 3 7
8 9 11
4
12
5
13
6
14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
Date of AGM
1st Working Day 2nd Working Day 3rd Working Day
4th working day
Notice deemed 
be served 14-Day Notice Period
10
Posting Notice 
of AGM
If there are motions in the agenda that are to be decided by a resolution 
other than an ordinary resolution. The general notice must be served 21 
days before the date of the AGM.
When calculating the number of days, the MC should exclude both the day 
on which the notice is sent and the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Building and Construction Authority
Preparation for a General Meeting | 15
31-day Month
Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
Date of AGM
21-Day Notice Period
As good practice, the MC should request for a certificate of posting from the postal service 
provider. This guards against SPs alleging that they were unaware of an AGM.
References:
BMSMA - Sections 2, 26, 27, 129
First Schedule to the BMSMA
Interpretation Act (Chapter 1) – Section 2
Posting Notice 1st Working Day 2nd Working Day 3rd Working Day
of AGM
4th working day
Notice deemed 
be served
Building and Construction Authority
16 | Preparation for a General Meeting
Date: dd/mm/yy 
Attention to: Secretary of MC Plan No. ___________
<Address of MC>
Dear Sir/Madam,
Subject: Request to convene Extra-Ordinary Meeting (EOGM) and to include motions 
in the meeting 
We, the Subsidiary Proprietors of MC Plan No. _________, representing (more than 20% of 
Share Value or 25% of the total number of SPs), would hereby like to request an EOGM to 
be held not later than 6 weeks from ______ < the date of receipt by the Secretary>. 
This requisition is for the purpose of discussing the following objects below:
a) <Motion to be discussed>
b) <Motion to be discussed>
c) <Motion to be discussed>
Signatories of Subsidiary Proprietors <Requisitionists’ signatures including name, 
NRIC and unit number (at least 20% of share value or not less than 25% of the total 
number of SPs)>
Eg.
_____________________ __________________
Name: A.S Name: 
NRIC No.: S1234567A NRIC No. 
Unit No.: #02-02 Unit No.: 
_____________________ __________________
Name: Name:
NRIC No.: NRIC No. 
Unit No.: Unit No.: 
Annex A
Sample of requisition notice
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550 
