STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE : 5
Proceedings of a 
Council Meeting
Building and Construction Authority
2 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the BMSMA and Regulations made under 
the BMSMA (Regulations).
This guide :
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the Act or Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights and duties 
applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated in this guide shall not be 
liable for any reliance on or misinterpretation of any information contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary rights. All 
rights, title and interest in the contents are owned by, licensed to or controlled by BCA and shall 
not be reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise distributed in any 
way, without the prior written permission of BCA. Modification of any of the contents or use of 
the contents for any other purpose will be a violation of BCA’s copyright and other intellectual 
property rights.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
Abbreviations
First published in March 2019
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance (Strata Management) Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) is 
intended to help councils of the management corporations (MCs), subsidiary proprietors (SPs), council 
members and managing agents (MAs) better manage their estates.
The guide will include recommended procedures and good practices to address common issues (e.g. how 
to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community to facilitate 
better self-regulation. 
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 3
Content
Preamble
(1) Introduction
(2) Notice of Council Meetings
(3) Sequence of a Council Meeting
(4) Chairperson to Preside at Council Meetings
(5) Quorum for Council Meetings
(6) Council’s Decisions to Be Decisions of MC
(7) Resolutions in Writing
(8) Duties of Council Members
(9) Adjournment of Council Meeting
(10) Content of Minutes of Council Meeting
(11) Keeping of Records
Annex A
4
5
6
7
8
10
11
12
14
15
16
17
Icon in this guide
Example
Building and Construction Authority
4 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
1.1 A council meeting is where council members will meet and discuss issues relating 
to the estate. Council meetings are held from time to time, as determined by the 
council. As good practice, council meetings should be held at least once a month. 
By doing so, council members can come together to discuss and decide on matters 
pertaining to the estate efficiently and effectively.
01
Introduction
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 5
2.1 If a council intends to call a meeting, the council must display a notice on the notice 
board at least 3 days before the date of a council meeting and serve the notice 
on each council member. 
2.2 The notice must contain a detailed agenda for the meeting and specify the date, time 
and venue of the meeting. If council members are given an option1 to participate 
in the meeting by means of Electronic Communication, the agenda should set out 
information as to how council members can access and use the relevant Electronic 
Communication.
2.3 It is recommended that the agenda also lists out in detail all the motions that the 
council desires to pass during the meeting so that council members and SPs are 
made aware of and know what is to be discussed in the meeting.
2.4 After SPs receive the detailed agenda of any council meeting, SPs who disagree 
with any proposed agenda item may choose to serve a notice in writing on the 
Secretary. This notice must be served on the Secretary before the council makes a 
decision on the agenda item. Importantly, the notice must be signed by SPs who 
collectively own one-third or more of the lots in the development.
(Paragraph 4 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
02
Notice of 
Council Meetings
1 For example, 5 council members may physically meet in the management office and council members who are unable to attend 
physically may be given the option of participating in the meeting by means of Electronic Communication.
Building and Construction Authority
6 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
3.1 It is recommended that the sequence of a council meeting should follow the agenda 
listed in the agenda notice. The following is an example of an agenda that is set out 
by a council.
03
Sequence of a 
Council Meeting
Appointment of Office Bearers
Appointment of Cheque Signatories
Appointment of Sub-Committee Members
Declaration of Interests from all 
Council Members and MA
Minutes of last Council Meeting
Matters Arising
Resolutions tabled by Council
Resolutions tabled by Council
MA & Term Contractors’ Report
Financial Report
Confirmation of Minutes 
If applicable
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 7
4.1 The chairperson of a council must preside at all meetings of the council. If the 
chairperson is absent from any meeting, the members of the council who are present 
must appoint a council member amongst themselves to stand in for the chairperson 
over that meeting.
(Paragraph 1 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA) 
04
Chairperson to Preside 
at Council Meetings
Building and Construction Authority
8 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
5.1 A quorum is the minimum number of people who must be present at a meeting 
before the meeting is validly convened. The quorum must be met before the 
meeting can proceed. The quorum for a council meeting is the majority of the 
council members. For example, if the council has six members, four must be present 
at a meeting before there is a quorum. 
5.2 The decision on any matter concerning the estate can be made at a council meeting 
at which the quorum is met. As such, the council should ensure that the quorum 
remains throughout the meeting.
5.3 A council member is deemed to be present at a meeting even if he cannot vote or 
has subsequently withdrawn from the meeting due to any declaration of interest2
.
2 Section 60 of the BMSMA requires a member of a council to declare the nature of any direct or indirect financial interest in any matters 
that are before the council meeting. After making the declaration, the council member can no longer vote on that matter or may be 
directed by the chairperson of the meeting to withdraw from the meeting.
(Paragraph 2 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
05
Quorum for 
Council Meetings
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 9
3 This may include other electronic means of communication such as Skype Group Conferencing, GoToMeeting etc.
4 For example, five council members may meet in the management office, council members who are unable to attend physically may 
be given the option of participating in the meeting through teleconferencing.
Methods of holding a council meeting
(Paragraph 1A of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
5.4 Apart from meeting up in person, a council may meet by means of teleconferencing 
or video conferencing3
 (Electronic Communication). However, a council must first 
decide by resolution to do so. If a council has passed such a resolution and council 
members are given an option4
 to participate in the meeting other than in person, 
all council members should be given access to the Electronic Communication. 
However, even in such cases, the council must still ensure that a quorum is maintained 
throughout the meeting.
5.5 A SP is entitled to attend a council meeting but must not speak up during the 
meeting unless the council gives the SP permission. The council is encouraged 
to provide SPs who are interested in attending the council meeting access to the 
technology needed to participate in the meeting if the council members meet by 
means of Electronic Communications. 
Building and Construction Authority
10 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
6.1 Any decision taken by the council in a council meeting is considered the decision 
of the MC. This is provided that the council does not decide on any restricted 
matter. A restricted matter is any matter that can only be passed by resolution after 
discussion in general meeting. Examples of restricted matters are: 
1) Matters that must be decided5
, by a general meeting (that is, those requiring 
ordinary resolution, special resolution, 90% resolution, unanimous resolution, 
comprehensive resolution or resolution by consensus).
2) Matters that have been decided by the general body to put a restriction6
 on the 
council’s decision making powers.
6.2 A quorum must be met all times during the council meeting when decisions are 
made. Where any motion is put to a council for decision making, a decision is 
considered to be made only when the majority of the members voting on that 
matter votes in favour of the motion. For example, if there are four council 
members at the meeting and three decide in the same manner that amounts to a 
majority vote.
(Section 58 of the BMSMA and Paragraph 2 of Second Schedule 
to the BMSMA)
06
Council’s Decisions to 
Be Decisions of MC
5 Resolutions are decisions made by the MCST owners. There are different types of resolutions that should be obtained, depending 
on the importance of the matters to be decided. An example is the decision to make by-laws which requires a special resolution. 
A special resolution is decided by the SPs who are present at the meeting and is passed when the SPs who vote for the resolution 
constitute at least 75% of the share value of all the valid votes cast at the meeting.
 An ordinary resolution only requires a simple majority of those at the meeting to pass the resolution. 
6 For example, general body deciding that a council can only approve expenses relating to common property maintenance up to 
certain amount.
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 11
7.1 Where a council does not hold a meeting in accordance with any of the intended 
methods (by means of a physical, tele-conferencing or video-conferencing 
meeting), the council can still choose to pass a resolution in writing (i.e. resolution 
by circulation). Such a resolution in writing may be passed only if the conditions7
 set 
out in Paragraph 7 of the Second Schedule to the BMSMA are met.
7 See Annex A for Paragraph 7 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA.
(Paragraph 7 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
07
Resolutions
in Writing
Building and Construction Authority
12 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
8.1 Generally, all council members must act honestly and use reasonable diligence 
in discharging their duties. In particular, council members must be mindful of the 
requirement to declare if they have any interests in contracts, property, shareholding 
or directorship which is the subject of any matter before the council8
.
(1) Declaration to be made at the council meeting immediately 
following the council member’s appointment
At the first council meeting held after his appointment, the council member must 
ensure that he declares any interest in property or office appointment/shareholding/
directorship interests that may conflict with his/her duties or interests as council 
member9
. 
(2) Declaration to be made as long as council member has any 
direct or indirect financial (pecuniary) interest in any contract or 
any matter that is put before the council for decision making
 Every time a proposed contract or matter is put before the council for decision 
making, council members must declare if they have any direct or indirect financial 
(pecuniary) interest in the matter10. If such a declaration is made, that council 
member must not take part in the discussion of that contract or matter.
8 These duties are set out under Sections 60 and 61 of the BMSMA. Council members are reminded that failure to meet these duties 
amount to an offence under the BMSMA. Therefore, all council members are reminded to take heed and be mindful that they duly 
comply with the abovementioned duties and are reminded to seek legal advice, if in doubt.
9 Examples of declarations: (1) declaration of shareholding interest in a managing agent firm that may potentially be appointed as MA 
for the MCST / (2) declaration of directorship interest in a contractor that may be bidding for MCST projects.
10 “Immediate family member” includes a spouse, child, adopted child, step-child, sibling or parent. 
(Sections 60 and 61 of the BMSMA) 
08
Duties of 
Council Members
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 13
Example: Conflict of interest
A council member becomes aware of a personal interest that may lead to a 
conflict and he is unsure as to whether an actual conflict of interest exists. 
8.2 The Chairman or the person chairing the meeting may direct that council member 
to leave the meeting during the consideration or discussion of that matter. If 
so, that council member may only stay if asked by the council to be present to 
provide information.
8.3 Where no council member has made a declaration for a proposed contract or matter, 
it is good practice that the minutes of the meeting record that no such declaration 
was made.
8.4 In relation to the declaration of interests, council members must take note that the 
interest of their immediate family members (if any) will be treated as their interest 
as well. 
The council member should immediately disclose that interest to the council 
and discuss with the council. 
If the majority of council members at the council meeting have conflicts of 
interest in relation to a particular matter, that matter should be decided by 
the general body of the MC instead.
Alternatively, the remaining council members may decide on that matter, 
provided it is not a restricted matter or does not contradict an existing bylaw setting out a different procedure for such decision-making.
Building and Construction Authority
14 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
9.1 A meeting of a council or an executive committee may be adjourned for any reason 
if a motion to adjourn the meeting is passed at the meeting.
9.2 The council or executive committee must give notice of the time and place a 
meeting adjourned is to be resumed. 
9.3 The notice required must be given at least 3 days before the time fixed for the 
resumed meeting as follows by:
a) Displaying a notice on the notice board of the MC or sub-MC; or
b) Serving the notice on each member of the council or executive member.
(Paragraph 4A of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
09
Adjourment of
Council Meeting
Example: Changes to the agenda of council meeting
The importance of creating and circulating an agenda of council meetings ahead 
of time is that it gives SPs an opportunity to prepare for the meeting, or make 
changes to the agenda if necessary. For example, an SP wants to include a topic 
of special concern in the agenda to address certain issues.
If the final agenda has changed, the council may issue a letter to inform all 
the SPs of the additional item in the agenda before the council meeting.
The council may post the final version of the agenda on the notice board.
The council can establish the latest date for any request for changes to be 
made to the agenda in the first notice of the council meeting. The council 
may decide to include new items which are not proposed within the deadline 
in the agenda of the following council meeting.
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 15
10.1 The council of the MC must ensure the minutes of every meeting of a council or an 
executive committee must contain the following information:
a) Date, time and place of the meeting;
b) Names of the members of the council or executive committee present at 
the meeting;
c) Names of the members of the council or executive committee voting;
d) Result of the votes on every motion submitted at the meeting;
e) Text of every resolution passed at the meeting; and 
 f) Declarations by council members (if any) of any direct or indirect pecuniary 
interest in any matter before the council.
10.2 Additional items that may be included in the minutes of council meeting are 
as follows:
a) Appointment of office-bearers (Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer);
b) Appointment of cheque signatories (for the 1st council meeting after the last 
general meeting); or
c) Standard Operating Procedures for procurement services and for making 
decision for emergencies requirements.
10.3 At every council meeting, the Secretary must prepare and distribute minutes of 
meetings of the MC and submit a motion for confirmation of the minutes of any 
meeting of MC at the next such meeting.
(Paragraph 8 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
10
Content of Minutes of 
Council Meeting
Building and Construction Authority
16 | Proceedings of a Council Meeting
11.1 The council must keep all minutes of council meetings. 
11.2 The council must display on the notice board a copy of the minutes of the council 
meeting within 14 days11 after the date of the meeting.
11.3 The minutes of the council meeting must be displayed on the notice board for at 
least 14 days. As such, the council should take steps to have the minutes approved 
by the council members after each council meeting so that the approved minutes 
are displayed on the notice board.
11.4 The council must maintain a notice board. The notice board may be either a physical 
or an online notice board maintained on the website of the MC. The council may 
also give each SP a copy of the minutes12. Should the MC have more than one notice 
board, the MC should ensure all notice boards are maintained and the notices 
are updated. 
11 The day after the council meeting marks the first day of the 14-day timeline.
12 Please refer to Paragraph 10 for information on content for minutes of council meeting.
(Paragraph 3 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA)
11
Keeping of Records
References:
BMSMA – Sections 58, 60, 61
First Schedule to the BMSMA
Second Schedule to the BMSMA
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a Council Meeting | 17
Resolutions in writing
A resolution of a council or an executive committee shall be taken to have been validly 
passed even though the meeting at which the motion for the resolution was proposed to 
be submitted was not held if:
a) Notice was given in accordance with this Schedule of the intended meeting of the 
council or executive committee, as the case may be;
b) A copy of the motion for the resolution was served on each member of the council or 
executive committee, as the case may be;
c) Resolution was approved in writing by a majority of members of the council or executive 
committee, as the case may be; and 
d) Motion for the resolution does not concern any matter that the management 
corporation or subsidiary management corporation, as the case may be, determines 
under section 59 may only be decided upon by its council or executive committee, as 
the case may be, at a meeting.
Annex A
Extract of Paragraph 7 of the Second Schedule to the BMSMA
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550 
