Maintaining MC’s Records | 1
STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE: 6
Managing Agent
1 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”) is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates.
The guide will include recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation.
Preamble
Building and Construction Authority
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building Maintenance 
and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under the BMSMA 
(“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM
 (SM) Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights 
and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated 
in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information contained in this guide 
by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, create 
derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. If you wish to 
use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, please seek BCA’s 
prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in April 2022
Managing Agent | 2
Building and Construction Authority
Abbreviations
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance(Strata Management) 
Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
Preamble
Introduction
Appointment of Managing Agent
MA’s Fees and Payment Terms
Duty and Liability of MA
Prohibited Activities for MA
Accreditation Scheme for MA
Criteria for Selecting an MA
Agreement for the Provision of MA Services
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
11
Content
Icon in this guide
Good Practice Example
3 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
An MC may employ the services of an MA to perform certain duties in respect of the 
management and maintenance of their strata-titled development. The MC should 
be aware of the MA’s obligations under the BMSMA and BM(SM) Regulations and 
contractually requires the MA to deliver professional services that will enable the MC 
to comply with the BMSMA and the BM(SM) Regulations. 
There are accreditation schemes1 administered by industry associations, which BCA 
recognises. MCs may consider engaging an accredited MA, which has gone through 
more structured training on management of strata-titled developments.
1.1
1.2
Introduction
01
1 These accrediting bodies include Singapore Institute of Surveyors and Valuers (SISV), Association of 
Property and Facility Managers (APFM) and Association of Strata Managers (ASM).
Managing Agent | 4
Building and Construction Authority
An MA can be appointed by the MC by an ordinary resolution during a general 
meeting or by the Council of the MC without a general meeting if authorisation to 
do so is given by the SPs at the last preceding general meeting of the MC. 
An MA can be appointed for a term of up to three years. However, the MA’s 
performance must be reviewed at every annual general meeting. SPs who have given 
feedback on the appointment of an MA are encouraged to express their concerns 
during the general meeting, or otherwise direct their concerns to the members of 
the MC to be raised during the general meeting.
The MA shall hold its appointment in the office until one of the following events 
occur, whichever is earlier:
(1) The conclusion of the 3rd AGM of the MC after the MA’s appointment;
(2) The expiry of the term of the MA’s appointment; or
(3) The termination at any time in accordance with the terms of the MA’s 
appointment 
a. If authorised by an ordinary resolution at a general meeting; or 
b. by the Council without a general meeting if the Council is authorised by 
the SPs to do so at the last preceding general meeting.
2.1
2.2
2.3
02
Appointment of 
Managing Agent
(Section 66 of the BMSMA)
5 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
The outgoing Council should consider extending the appointment of 
the existing MA not past the next AGM. This facilitates the process of 
preparing any new agreement with regard to re-appointing the existing 
MA or appointing a new MA.
Alternatively, when negotiating the agreement, the MC could include an 
option for the MA to have their appointment automatically extend for a 
further 3 months. 
If the Council decides not to re-appoint the existing MA, they should give 
the MA at least 1 month’s notice of that decision before the appointment 
of the MA is terminated.
After the conclusion of the AGM, the SPs have authorised the Council of the MC 
to appoint an MA. The newly formed Council needs time to decide on the MA 
appointment. 
Case Example: MCST appointing 
MA for longer period
The MCST can consider appointing a MA for a term of up to 3 years under a private 
service agreement signed between the MC and MA. As required under section 6 
of the BMSMA the MC must include in the agenda of subsequent AGMs a motion 
for the termination or for the continuation of the MA for the next ensuing year. The 
MC should table the motion with a view to allowing the general body to discuss 
and provide feedback on the performance of the MA. The MA should also use this 
session to explain and garner support from the SPs at the AGM to be reappointed 
for the next term of service as set out in the service agreement.
Good Practice: Extending the term of appointment of an 
MA who retires from office
What can MC do:
2-year term of appointment
Up to 3 
months 
extension
15 May 2018 15 May 2020 15 August 2020
1st AGM and the date 
of MA’s appointment
2nd AGM after 
MA’s appointment 
and date of expiry 
of agreement
Latest date of 
extension of MA’s 
appointment
Managing Agent | 6
Building and Construction Authority
The fees and expenses of the MA, if (a) appointed by the MC by ordinary resolution, 
shall be fixed in a general meeting, or (b) appointed by the Council, shall be fixed 
by the Council if authorised by the SPs at the last preceding general meeting. The 
matters to be decided include the fees to be paid to the MA, the due date of the 
payments and the wages of staff members stationed on site, which should be stated 
clearly in the agreement between the MC and the MA. This is to ensure that the MC 
and MA are financially accountable to each other in accordance to the terms of the 
agreement.
03
MA’s Fees and 
Payment Terms
(Section 66 of the BMSMA)
3.1
7 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
04
Duty and 
Liability of MA
(Section 67 of the BMSMA)
The MC may in writing delegate its power, duties and functions to the appointed 
MA, to any extent that the MC deems necessary. However, this does not include 
the delegation of power to the MA to make critical decisions or pass resolutions, on 
behalf of the MC, that only the MC is allowed to exercise2.
Any acts and omissions of the MA are done and suffered on behalf of the MC, if the 
MA is acting under the delegation by the MC. Thus, any legal ramification that arises 
from acts and omissions done under such delegation will be applicable to both the 
MA and the MC.
Prior to the appointment, the MA must declare any direct or indirect relationships 
that they may have with any SP in the estate3.
4.1
4.2
4.3
2
3
The MC, however, cannot allow the MA to sub-delegate the MA’s powers, duties and functions to others; 
decide on any matter that can only be made by the MC pursuant to a unanimous resolution, a special 
resolution, a 90% resolution or a resolution by consensus at a general meeting; or decide on a restricted 
matter in the BMSMA section 59 that can be determined only by the MC at a general meeting.
Please refer to the BMSMA section 66(4).
Managing Agent | 8
Building and Construction Authority
05
Prohibited 
Activities for MA
(Section 68 of the BMSMA)
The MA shall not, whether on its own or through its employee or agent, canvass for 
votes by proxy or conduct any other activity for the purposes of election of Council 
members.
MAs are sometimes approached by an SP asking for the contact details of other SPs 
in the development to canvass for votes by proxy or for some reason which benefits 
the SP. MAs are not permitted to provide contact details such as contact numbers or 
email addresses for such purposes.
5.1
5.2
9 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
06
Accreditation 
Scheme for MA
MA can apply for accreditation under the accreditation schemes administered by 
either the Association of Property and Facility Managers (“APFM”) or the Association 
of Strata Managers (“ASM”). These accreditation schemes are recognised by BCA 
to support the industry’s efforts to raise the standards of MA in Singapore.
The accreditation scheme requires all individual MAs to undergo a structured training 
program and pass an examination conducted by either APFM or ASM, and the BCA 
Academy, among other requirements set by the respective associations. The training 
program provides the individual with knowledge on key legislative provisions, basic 
principles of facilities maintenance and services, as well as communications and 
administrative skills. These skill sets will equip MAs with the capabilities to carry out 
duties professionally and provide sound advice to MCs. MA firms can be accredited 
if they have sufficient number of staff accredited at the individual level and fulfil 
other accreditation criteria. The accreditation requirements includes MA firms to 
have professional indemnity insurance, and key management personnel who have 
relevant academic qualifications and working experience. 
6.1
6.2
Managing Agent | 10
Building and Construction Authority
07
Criteria for 
Selecting an MA
7.1
7.2
When selecting an MA, the MC may wish to consider the following non-exhaustive 
list of matters:
a. tender price submitted with respect to the MC’s budget;
b. track record of managing similar developments;
c. accreditation with any industry association, if any;
d. head office support rendered to the site staff;
e. financial strength of the MA; and
f. MA’s insurance coverage such as professional indemnity insurance.
MCs should interview the key management personnel of the MA, and if possible, also 
the persons who would be deployed to the development, to assess their capability, 
competency and suitability to provide satisfactory MA services.
11 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
08
Agreement for the 
Provision of MA Services
The agreement is an instrument in writing, signed between the MC 
and the MA, which sets out the MC’s powers, duties and functions 
that both the MC and the MA agree should be performed by the MA. 
These may pertain to areas on management of the development, 
administration and secretarial matters, accounting and finance 
matters, and operation and maintenance matters etc.
The standard or level of service and performance expected of the MA 
during its term of appointment should also be stated in the agreement. 
Both MC and MA should discuss their expectations, which should 
preferably be measurable and specific. These parameters should be 
set out in the agreement, and may include key performance indicators 
and the timelines for completion of certain tasks such as preparing 
minutes of meeting, churning out of financial reports and responding 
to residents’ feedback.
Please see Annex B for a brief description of the matters that MC 
should consider addressing in an agreement with the MA. MC and 
MA should also refer to and adapt the contract agreement templates 
developed by the industry associations for MCST developments. 
8.1
8.2
8.3
Managing Agent | 12
Building and Construction Authority
References:
BMSMA - Sections 2, 66, 67, 68 
BM (SM) Regulations
The MC should discuss beforehand with the MA and stipulate in the 
agreement the follow-up action or recourse which either party should 
take in such a situation.
The recourse may include serving a warning letter, imposing liquidated 
damages or terminating the agreement at a specified time.
When the situation arises, the MC can invoke the recourse stated in the 
agreement.
The MA does not meet the MC’s expected service level or performance standard 
as set out in the agreement.
Good Practice: Recourse to MC if MA does not meet 
expected service level or performance standard
What can MC do:
13 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
Breakdown of Fees, Expenses and Entitlements
The fees and entitlements of the MA’s employees, such as leave, basic salaries, annual wage 
supplements, employer’s CPF contribution, medical benefits and performance bonuses 
should be set out in the agreement between the MC and the MA. Further, if the MA is to 
be paid on a reimbursement basis under the agreement with the MC, a list of reimbursable 
costs borne by the MC should also be provided in the agreement to facilitate any 
reimbursements to or claims by the MA. This will help to maintain transparency with 
regard to all fees, expenses and entitlements and reduce any possible disputes.
Additional Staff and Services
The rates for the provision of optional or additional staff and services, at the request of 
the MC, should be stated clearly in the agreement to prevent any misunderstanding on 
the fees and payments. The agreement should also address the procedure by which the 
MC may request for optional or additional staff and services, including whether the MA 
may reject the MC’s request. For example, the MC should require in the agreement that 
the MA receives proper consent and written approval from the MC.
The accrediting bodies include:
Association of Strata Managers (ASM)
1 Scotts Road
#24-05 Shaw Centre
Singapore 228208
Tel: 6679 7799
Fax: 6679 7801
Website: www.asm.org.sg
Association of Property and Facility 
Managers (APFM)
110 Middle Road 
#09-00 Chiat Hong Building 
Singapore 188968 
Tel: 6372 1056
Fax: 6225 2453
Website: www.apfm.org.sg
Annex A
Annex B
General Matters to be Addressed in Agreement with MA
Managing Agent | 14
Building and Construction Authority
Emergency Funds
The MC should also consider whether to agree with the MA to set aside an emergency 
fund to cater for emergency maintenance and/or repair works, such as the bursting of 
underground pipes or fallen trees, and the agreement should address how the emergency 
fund can be used by the MA if such use occurs during hours when the MC is not available 
to provide written consent for the costs to be incurred.
The agreement should incorporate pre-defined limits, based on the severity of the 
emergency, in respect of the funds allowed to be incurred in rectifying the issue.
The process for using this emergency fund could include the following:
• Promptly inform the MC upon becoming aware of the emergency;
• Assess and determine the severity of the situation;
• Identify the corresponding limits for costs to be incurred;
• Identify rectification works needed and costs of the works.
The procedure for the MA’s handling emergencies and utilisation of funds to address 
emergences is extremely critical, to ensure the MA can act promptly to address 
emergencies that may affect the safety and health of residents and/or damage to 
properties within the development.
Compliance with Relevant Laws
The agreement should ensure that both MC and MA comply with relevant laws and 
regulations, such as the Personal Data Protection Act 2012. Since the agreement will 
govern actions occurring in Singapore, both parties are subject to, and need to abide 
by all the relevant laws in Singapore.
Non-Waiver of Rights 
Any delay or non-exercise of rights should not constitute a waiver of those rights. This is 
to protect the rights of both MC and MA, and ensure that their rights to take particular 
actions, will not be revoked unreasonably and unfavourably.
Amendments to the Agreement 
Variations or amendments to the agreement should be set out in writing and agreed to 
and signed by both the MA and MC. 
Invalidation of the Terms of the Agreement 
The invalidation of any portions of the agreement should not affect other portions of the 
agreement.
15 | Managing Agent
Building and Construction Authority
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550
