Maintaining MC’s Records | 1
STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE: 7
Developer Handing 
Over after First Annual 
General Meeting
1 | Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting 
Building and Construction Authority Building and Construction Authority
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”) is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates. 
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to requisition a motion, etc.). 
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation. 
Preamble
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building Maintenance 
and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under the BMSMA 
(“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM
 (SM) Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights 
and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated 
in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information contained in this guide 
by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, create 
derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. If you wish to 
use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, please seek BCA’s 
prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in April 2022
Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting | 2
Building and Construction Authority
Preamble
Introduction
Preparation for first AGM
Delivery of Documents after the First AGM
(1)
(2)
(3)
3
4
5
Content
Abbreviations
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance(Strata Management) 
Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
Icon in this guide
Good Practice
3 | Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting 
Building and Construction Authority
The Owner Developer (“Developer”) refers to any person, who is registered as the 
proprietor of the land shown in the strata title plan immediately before the constitution 
of the Management Corporation (MC) of the land. The Developer is required to 
manage and maintain the strata development before the MC is constituted. 
The Developer must convene the first annual general meeting (AGM) of the MC 
within the stipulated timeline and be prepared to hand over the control, finance, 
documents and all other relevant items relating to the management, operation and 
administration of the MC to the elected council immediately after the first AGM is 
successfully held.
While it is required that the Developer2 must be the chairperson presiding over 
the first AGM, the Developer can be assisted by a managing agent (MA). If the 
Developer fails to hold the first AGM as required under the Building Maintenance 
and Strata Management Act (BMSMA), any SP may apply to the Commissioner to 
appoint a person to convene the first AGM. Any Developer who, without reasonable 
excuse, fails to comply with the BMSMA shall be guilty of an offence and shall be 
liable on conviction to a fine.
1.1
1.2
1.3
01
Introduction
(Sections 23 and 26 of the BMSMA)
1 
2
See Guide 3 on ‘Preparation of General Meeting’ on requirements to convene First AGM. 
The Developer can appoint any suitable employee (or responsible officer, as defined in the BMSMA) from 
its organisation to attend and chair the first AGM. “Responsible officer” refers to
for an owner developer that is a corporation or limited liability partnership, means —
any director, partner, chief executive or employee of the corporation; or
for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its members, any of those members as if the 
member were a director of the corporation, or any employee of the corporation;
the president, the secretary, or any member of the committee of the unincorporated association; 
any person holding a position analogous to that of president, secretary or member of a 
committee of the unincorporated association; or 
any employee of the unincorporated association.
for an owner developer that is a partnership, means any partner in the partnership, or any employee 
of the partnership; or 
for an owner developer that is an unincorporated association (other than a partnership), means —
(a)
(b)
(c)
(i)
(ii)
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting | 4
Building and Construction Authority
Besides the Notice of AGM, the Developer is required to prepare an annual budget 
before the first AGM for approval. The annual budget is to be for a period of 12 
months starting on the first day of the month following the date of the first AGM. 
The proposed first annual budget is to be distributed with the Notice of AGM of the 
first AGM. The budget and financial statement must contain the information on the 
transactions and financial position of the MC, detailing the opening balance of the 
management fund and sinking fund (surplus or deficit), estimated income from all 
sources and expenditures and the budget expenditure for the coming financial year 
and the proposed contribution rates for management fund and sinking fund.
Agenda For First AGM
The agenda for the first AGM must include the following:
a) number of council members and their election;
b) the amount of contributions to be raised for the management fund and the 
sinking fund;
c) whether insurance taken out by the Developer should be confirmed, varied 
or extended, and to confirm or vary the amount of insurance coverage, if 
applicable;
d) the matters that shall be determined only by the MC at a general meeting;
e) whether an MA is to be appointed and the powers, duties and/or functions 
of the MC to be delegated to the MA; and
f) adoption of the audited annual accounts of the MC for a period ending on a 
date within 4 months before the first AGM.
2.1
2.2
2.3
02
Preparation for First AGM
First Annual Budget (Section 26 of the BMSMA)
5 | Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting 
Building and Construction Authority
3.1
3.2
03
Delivery of Documents 
after the First AGM
Within One Week after the First AGM (Section 23 of the BMSMA) 
Within one week after the first AGM, the Developer must transfer the control of the 
estate and the MC’s funds to the newly elected council, such as ensuring that the 
MC funds in the bank are transferred to the legal name of the MC, and that all keys 
and other means of access in respect of the development, (e.g. keys to the electrical 
risers and pump rooms) are delivered to the council.
For 2 years following the transfer of control of the development to the MC, the 
Developer must keep financial records that relate to the MC’s finances during the 
period before the transfer of control. During this period, the Developer must provide 
the MC with free inspection of the financial records but can charge the MC for the 
cost of copying the documents.
Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting | 6
Building and Construction Authority
(a) place before the meeting and delivered to the MC copies of all the following:
Within Two Weeks after the First AGM
(Section 26 of the BMSMA, and Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the BM(SM) Regulations)
3.3 By the end of two weeks after the first AGM, the Developer must:
Relevant documents
i. all plans that were required 
to obtain a building permit 
and any amendments to the 
building permit plans:
• approved building plans for all buildings 
in the development;
NIL
• architectural drawings
• structural drawings
• Air-con & Mechanical Ventilation (ACMV) 
drawings
• sanitary and plumbing drawings
• utilities drawings – water, electricity, gas, 
telecoms, etc.
• fire protection drawings – sprinklers, hose 
reels, fire hydrants, DECAM, etc.
• lightning protection system drawings
• Civil Defence shelter drawings
• various schematic drawings of services, 
including swimming pool filtration tank 
and pump, sump pit, lift, etc.
• copies of all contracts entered into
• a list of the names and addresses of every 
consultant, contractor and sub-contractor 
for that development;
• service contracts, which includes 
o cleaning services
o security services
o managing agent
o landscaping services
o pest control services
o fire protection services
o swimming pool maintenance services
o lift maintenance services
o pump maintenance services
o air-con services for common facilities 
such as function room
o gym equipment services
o legal services
o other services such as car barrier 
system, intercom system, shuttle bus 
service etc.
Examples of documents:
ii. any as-built drawings in the 
Developer’s possession that 
indicates the actual location 
of any pipe, wire, cable, 
chute, duct or other facility for 
the passage or provision of 
systems or services:
iii. all contracts entered into by 
the MC
iv. strata title plan
7 | Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting 
Building and Construction Authority
Relevant documents
v. the names and addresses 
of such contractors, 
subcontractors and persons 
who supplied labour or 
materials to the development 
during construction
• the main contractor for the development;
• every nominated subcontractor for the 
development;
• every nominated supplier of labour or 
materials to the development during 
construction; and
• every subcontractor and every supplier 
of tiles or sanitary fittings to the 
development during construction.
• strata roll
• Schedule of Strata Unit for the 
development.
• the planning permission granted and final 
approved submission drawings showing 
the final gross floor area information in 
respect of the development;
• all notices or directions issued by the 
Government or any public authority in 
respect of the development; 
• all current insurance policies relating to 
the development;
• an Asset listing of all furniture, equipment 
and movable property used or to be used 
in connection with the common property 
or limited common property, if any;
• warranties, which include:
o anti-termite treatment work
o water proofing and water tightness to 
wet areas
o membrane panel roofing works
o tiled roofing system
o floor hardener
o tile adhesive works
o aluminum works, glazing and curtain 
walling works
o external spray textured coating system
o laminated flooring
o shower screens;
o engineered façade system e.g. glazing 
glass, cladding, green wall, screen wall
o spilt unit air con
o circulation pumps including swimming 
pool, Jacuzzi pool
Examples of documents:
vi. all warranties, manuals, 
schematic drawings, operating 
instructions, service guides, 
manufacturer’s documentation 
and other similar information 
relating to the common 
property including lightings, 
pumps, intercom, etc;
* The above list serves as a reference for documents that the developer should hand over 
but is not exhaustive. 
vii. all records required to be 
prepared or retained by 
the MC under the BMSMA
any other records as may 
be prescribed;
viii.
Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting | 8
Building and Construction Authority
3.3
3.4
3.5
Please note that where there are prefabricated bathroom units that are incorporated 
in the development, the manufacturer’s manual also has to be handed over by the 
Developer.
It is important for the Developer to keep track of the documents and information 
to be handed over to the MC for a smooth management and administration of the 
development.
If the Developer does not supply the above listed documents to the MC and the MC 
must pay money to third parties to obtain copies of the documents, the Developer 
must reimburse the costs of obtaining the documents to the MC.
The MC should identify any defects in the common property as soon 
as possible and examine if any of the Developer’s warranties are going 
to expire. If there are defects, the MC could engage the Developer to 
inform the contractor and subsequently pursue the warranties directly 
as the deeds of warranties are usually transferred to the MC after 
handing over. 
The Developer must take reasonable efforts to pursue any remedies under 
warranties in existence regarding the common property. Warranty periods will vary 
but they are often limited to one year or less, so any action must be commenced 
promptly.
Good Practice: Pursuing the Developer’s Warranties
What can the MC do?
9 | Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting 
Building and Construction Authority
The MC should request to obtain a copy of all financial records relating 
to the MC. The MC should tally the figures and check with the Developer 
if they have any doubts while the Developer is still able to recall the past 
expenditures.
Engage the Developer and have regular engagements to understand 
estate matters which will result in a smoother and comprehensive take 
over after the 1st AGM. It will be good to request for the Developer to 
organise and conduct training in respect of the common facilities and 
equipment in the development, for familiarisation and at the same time 
to take note of any existing issues.
Dispute on the use of maintenance funds, if any.
The Developer has a duty to ensure that all records relating to the MC are properly 
documented and ready to be provided to the MC.
Good Practice: Proper Record and Book-keeping of 
MC Finances
What can the MC do?
References:
BMSMA - Sections 23, 26
BM (SM) Regulations
Developer Handing Over after First Annual General Meeting | 10
Building and Construction Authority
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550
