Maintaining MC’s Records | 1
STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE: 8
Maintaining
MC’s Records
1 | Maintaining MC’s Records
Building and Construction Authority Building and Construction Authority
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”) is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates.
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to requisite a motion, etc.). 
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation. 
Preamble
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building Maintenance 
and Strata Management Act (Chapter 30C) (“BMSMA”) and Regulations made under the 
BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM
 (SM) Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights 
and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated 
in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information contained in this guide 
by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary rights, 
and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the contents. You 
shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, create derivative works, 
transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. If you wish to use the contents for 
any purpose other than for your own reference, please seek BCA’s prior written consent. 
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in April 2022
Maintaining MC’s Records | 2
Building and Construction Authority
Preamble
Introduction
MC’s Records
Strata Roll
Financial records
By-laws record
Supply of information by the MC
Annex
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
3
4
5
6
8
9
12
Content
Abbreviations
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance(Strata Management) 
Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
Icon in this guide
Good Practice Example
3 | Maintaining MC’s Records
Building and Construction Authority
The council of management corporation (“MC”) is responsible for keeping all the 
information and records related to the MC. These information and records are 
required to be kept for a certain period of time under the BMSMA. The council may 
delegate record keeping to an MA. 
Proper keeping of MC’s records will help to overcome challenges associated with 
incomplete records, such as inconsistent application of by-laws or disagreement 
among the SPs.
1.1
1.2
Introduction
01
Maintaining MC’s Records | 4
Building and Construction Authority
MC’s records refer to any documents and records related to the MC. A person who 
has possession or control of MC’s records shall be responsible to ensure that the 
records are updated.
The MC is required to retain all its records, books of account and such documents 
related to the MC for a period of not less than five (5) years from the end of 
the financial year in which the transactions or operations to which those documents 
relate are completed. Any MC who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with 
the requirement to retain MC’s records shall be guilty of an offence.
2.1
2.2
MC’s Records
(Section 48 of the BMSMA)
02
5 | Maintaining MC’s Records
Building and Construction Authority
The MC must prepare and maintain a strata roll in accordance with section 46 of the 
BMSMA, in the form determined by the MC. 
Amongst other information, the following information must be recorded in the MC’s 
strata roll relating to the lot to which the information relates:
a) the share value of the lot, as shown on the schedule of strata units accepted 
by the Commissioner of Buildings;
b) the name and address of the SP;
c) the name and address of any mortgagee, if notification is given;
d) the date of entry into possession of the lot by a mortgagee; and
e) the address (including email address if provided) within Singapore for the 
service of notices on any person as shown in a notice given to the MC. 
Please refer to section 46(3) of the BMSMA for more details.
The MC shall, upon written application by an SP, make available for inspection the 
strata roll in its entirety to the SP, in accordance with section 47(1)(b)(i) of the BMSMA.
3.1
3.2
3.3
Strata Roll
(Section 46 of the BMSMA)
03
Maintaining MC’s Records | 6
Building and Construction Authority
The MC must maintain all accounting records and financial statements of the MC. 
These include:
a) documents in respect of transactions entered into by the MC;
b) financial records including a profit and loss statement, income statements, 
balance sheet and tax returns;
c) official receipts, cheque books and cash from payments or deposits which 
must be securely locked and verified;
d) fixed deposits record (if any);
e) monthly bank account statements;
f) records of income generated by the MC, e.g. through common facilities, 
access cards, car parking, deposits, rental of space, maintenance and sinking 
fund collection etc; and
g) any other documents related to the financial status of the MC.
The audit of the books and accounts of an MC shall be carried out only by a person 
who is a public accountant within the meaning of the Companies Act (Cap. 50).
The auditor shall be appointed by: 
a) the MC at its annual general meeting; or
b) the council of the MCST within 90 days after the annual general meeting 
(“AGM”) is concluded if no auditor is appointed during that AGM,
and the auditor shall hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the MC 
(Section 45(3) of the BMSMA).
4.1
4.2
4.3
Financial Records
(Sections 45 and 57 of the BMSMA)
04
7 | Maintaining MC’s Records
Building and Construction Authority
Official receipts issued for all incomes received by the MC. All receipts 
must be consecutively numbered for accounting purposes. Any void or 
cancelled receipt must be recorded, and the reasons for the voiding or 
cancellation of the receipt must also be recorded. 
Examples of Records of income and 
expenditures of an MC:
All bank-in slips in respect of cash deposits must be properly filed for 
accounting purpose.
All expenditures of the MC must be supported by work orders signed 
off by the appointed treasurer and with supporting documents. 
E.g. Quotations received from contractors and an evaluation of the 
quotations, meeting minutes and any written records stating approval 
of award etc. Work order numbers must be in running sequence, and 
any void or cancelled work orders must be recorded and the reasons for 
the voiding or cancellation of the work orders must also be recorded.
Expenditures paid for using petty cash shall be approved by the 
authorised person-in-charge prior to procurement and properly 
recorded. The maximum amount of petty cash kept at the site office 
must be determined and approved by the council. MA must maintain 
and submit a tabulation of expenditures under petty cash when seeking 
approval for top up.
Maintaining MC’s Records | 8
Building and Construction Authority
By-laws are regulations made by the MC for the purpose of controlling and managing 
the use or enjoyment of the parcel comprised in the strata title plan.
The MC must keep a record of the prescribed by-laws and any by-laws made by the 
MC which are in force from time to time.
The MCST must make available for viewing, free of charge, at the MC’s office, the 
prescribed by-laws and any by-laws of the MC which are in force. The SP or a person 
authorised by the SP may apply in writing for a copy of the by-laws, which are in 
force, and the MC shall supply to the SP a copy of the by-laws on payment of a fee 
that is not more than the amount prescribed under Regulation 21A of the BM (SM) 
Regulations. 
By-laws Records
(Section 32(8) of the BMSMA)
05
5.1
5.2
5.3
9 | Maintaining MC’s Records
Building and Construction Authority
An SP or a person authorised by the SP can make a written application 
to the MC to ask to inspect the MC’s records. The MC should advise 
the SP on the procedure and payment of the respective fees involved 
in the inspection and/or copying of the requested records. The 
applicant must pay the prescribed inspection fee as provided for 
under regulation 11 of the BM (SM) Regulations. An SP or a person 
authorised by the SP can request to make a copy of the MC’s records 
upon payment of the prescribed fee as provided for under regulation 
11 of the BM (SM) Regulations. If no inspection is required by the SP 
for the copying of the MC’s records, no fees for inspection is payable 
by the SP.
Under the BMSMA, the MC is required to provide the MC’s records to 
an SP, mortgagee, prospective purchaser or mortgagee of a lot or by a 
person authorised in writing by such an SP or mortgagee, on payment 
of the prescribed fee, at such time and place as may be agreed upon by 
the requesting party and the MC. If the MC and the requesting party 
are unable to agree on the time and place of provision of the requisite 
records within 7 days after the MC’s receipt of the request, the MC 
shall immediately send by post to the requesting party a notice fixing 
a time, specified in the notice, between 9am and 6pm on a date so 
specified in the notice occurring within 21 days from the MC’s receipt 
of the request. The records which can be disclosed with respect to the 
MC are listed under section 47(1)(b) of BMSMA. 
The MC is also required to respond to written requests for records 
pertaining to a lot within the development from prospective purchasers. 
The provision of records will need to comply with the process and 
timelines provided in section 47 of the BMSMA, as briefly described 
in para 6.2 above. 
Supply of Information 
by the MC
(Sections 47 and 48 of the BMSMA)
06
6.1
6.2
6.3
Maintaining MC’s Records | 10
Building and Construction Authority
Sequence of application for MCST information
Arrangement of a time for the 
inspection as agreed upon by the 
applicant or his agent and the MCST. 
The inspection date cannot be later 
than 14 days from the date of the 
MCST receiving the initial request. 
Documents can be inspected in 
person, through electronic access to 
the documents or by other means 
agreed upon. The person inspecting 
the documents can make copies but 
must not remove any documents from 
the premises without permission. 
If the parties fail to reach an 
agreement on or before the 7th 
day after receipt of the application 
by the MCST, the MCST shall 
immediately send by post to the 
applicant a notice fixing a time 
between 9am and 6pm on a date not 
later than the 21st day after receipt 
of the application by MCST.
1 The authorised person includes Subsidiary management corporation, Subsidiary Proprietor, 
Mortgagee of that lot, prospective purchaser and a person authorised in writing by the Subsidiary 
proprietor or mortgagee.
Application in writing to MCST by authorised person1
Payment of a fee (if prescribed)
11 | Maintaining MC’s Records
Building and Construction Authority
If the person fails to return the MCST any of the records or property of 
the MCST, the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000. (Section 48(1)(1A))
The managing agent must deliver the records not later than the 7th day 
after the notice of resolution has been served on the relevant person by 
the council.
The contract of the incumbent managing agent was not renewed, and the 
management council has served a notice of a resolution to the managing agent to 
deliver MCST records, books of account, keys, strata roll and other MCST property.
Good Practice: Handover of MCST documents
References:
BMSMA – Sections, 32, 45, 46, 47, 48, 57
BM (SM) Regulations
Handover of MCST records
Maintaining MC’s Records | 12
Building and Construction Authority
Annex A
Suggested Checklist for handover of MCST documents and properties
List of items for handover
D Financial records (Financial statement of accounts, financial audit reports,
Bank statements, fixed deposit certificate etc.)
D Petty cash
D The strata roll
D Procurement record under MCST (E.g. Purchase order)
D All keys and access cards 
D Common Property inventories
D Common seal of MCST
D Court order (if any)
D Minutes of council meeting
D Documents of AGM 
D Strata unit files
D As-built drawings
D A copy of the Strata Title Plans
D Insurance policies
D Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) (E.g. SOP for handing emergency 
situations etc)
D Tools and equipment purchased by MCST
D System Operating manuals
D All contracts entered into by and on behalf of MCST
D Resident movement record (Moving in and out)
D Tenant record
D Access cards record
D Renovation works record
D Registered vehicles record
D Telephony record
D List of outstanding feedback and things to follow up
D List of contractors, sub-contractors and persons engaged under MCST
D All warranties, manuals schematic drawings, operating instructions, service 
guides, manufacturers’ documentation and other information in respect of the 
construction, installation, operation maintenance, repair and servicing of any 
common property, including any warranty information provided to the owner 
developer by any person.
D Prescribed by-laws and any by-laws made by the MCST
D Any other records required to be prepared or retained by MCST
Maintaining MC’s Records | 13
Building and Construction Authority
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550
