Maintaining MC’s Records | 1
STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE: 9
Dispute Resolution: 
Common Disputes and 
Courses of Actions
1 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority Building and Construction Authority
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction 
Authority (“BCA”) is intended to help councils of the management corporations (“MCs”), 
subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), council members and managing agents (“MAs”) better 
manage their estates.
The guide sets out recommended procedures and good practices to address common 
issues (e.g. how to conduct a general meeting, how to requisite a motion, etc). 
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata 
community to facilitate better self-regulation. 
Preamble
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the Building 
Maintenance and Strata Management Act (“BMSMA”) and regulations made under the 
BMSMA (“BM(SM) Regulations”).
This guide:
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the BMSMA or BM
 (SM) Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal 
rights and duties applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency 
stated in this guide shall not be liable for any reliance on any information contained in this 
guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary 
rights, and are the property of the BCA, or the party credited as the provider of the 
contents. You shall not copy, reproduce, upload, distribute, publish, post, modify, create 
derivative works, transmit or in any way exploit the contents of this guide. If you wish to 
use the contents for any purpose other than for your own reference, please seek BCA’s 
prior written consent.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
First published in April 2022
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 2
Building and Construction Authority
Preamble
Introduction
Common Disputes in an Estate
Courses of Actions
Approaching MC
Filing of application with CMC
Filing of application with the STB
Filing of application with Court
(1)
(2)
(3)
(3.1)
(3.2)
(3.3)
(3.4)
3
4
7
7
8
9
12
Content
Abbreviations
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
CMC
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance(Strata Management) 
Regulations 2005
Community Mediation Centre 
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
Icon in this guide
Good Practice Example
3 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority
People of diverse backgrounds and interests are brought together when they live 
in the same community. There are bound to be disagreements and disputes arising 
among them. Tolerance, understanding of others and communication are essential 
to living together harmoniously.
In many instances, parties involved in a dispute have not even spoken to each other 
about the problem. The other party may not even be aware that there is an issue. 
This makes it tough for people to continue living harmoniously together. The first 
step towards resolving a dispute is to communicate with the other party. 
1.1
Introduction
01
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 4
Building and Construction Authority
There are a few types of disputes that commonly surface — these are mainly disputes 
between the MC and MA, SP and MC, SP and MA, and SP and SP. Please see the 
table below for more information.
2.1
Common Disputes 
in an Estate
02
Parties Involved
SP vs MA
MC vs MA
SP vs MC
SP vs SP
SP vs Upper 
Unit Owner 
(e.g. SP and 
MC)
Unsatisfactory response by 
MA regarding SP’s feedback 
on estate maintenance
Unsatisfactory performance 
of MA on duties tasked by 
MC
SPs having queries or 
problems with one or more 
Council Members on their 
decisions or actions 
Breach of by-laws including 
encroachment and nuisance 
such as noise, littering, pets, 
etc.
Water seepage into unit from 
above
Bring the matter to the MC for 
their attention and follow up
Look at the terms and 
conditions in the MA service 
agreement for any recourse 
e.g. termination
Approach the upper unit 
owner, discuss repair costs 
and try to resolve the problem 
amicably
Approach the neighbour 
directly and try to resolve the 
problem amicably
File complaint with an 
accrediting body if the MA is 
an accredited member
File an application with STB 
under Section 101(8) of the 
BMSMA
Bring the matter to the MC for 
their attention and follow up
•
•
•
•
•
•
Bring the matter to the MC for 
their attention and follow up 
Possible Dispute Suggested Recourse
5 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority
It is not uncommon for SPs to place shoe racks, bicycles etc. outside their doors in 
the common area, which can cause obstruction of the common property. The SP 
can request his neighbour to remove the obstruction and if there is no response, the 
SP can raise the matter with the MC. 
Example 2: Dispute between SP and MC/MA on obstruction 
of common property
What can the MC do?
Approach the SP to remove the obstruction
Inform SCDF if there is contravention of the 
Fire Safety Act
Apply for Court Order to enforce by-laws
Send circular(s) to remind SPs that 
prescribed by-laws should be complied with
Under Section 29(1)(a) of the BMSMA, it shall be the duty of an MC to control, 
manage and administer the common property for the benefit of all the SPs in the 
development. The MC shall also properly maintain and keep in a state of good and 
serviceable repair the common property.
Example 1: Dispute between SP and MC/MA on poor 
maintenance of common property
What can the SP do?
If there is a dispute regarding common property, e.g. poor maintenance, 
obstruction of common property etc, the SP can bring the matter to the 
attention of the MC.
If the SP has an issue relating to the exercise or performance of the MC’s 
power, duty or function, he/she may apply to the Strata Titles Boards 
(“STB”) for a resolution, under Section 101(1) of the BMSMA. 
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 6
Building and Construction Authority
What can the SP do? What can the MC do?
The SP can talk to his 
neighbour and try to arrive 
at an amicable solution.
Approach the SP to comply with 
by-laws.
Send circular(s) to remind SPs that 
by-laws should be complied with. 
Apply for Court Order to enforce 
by-laws.
Make additional by-laws to control 
and manage the estate.
If that does not help, the 
SP can bring the matter 
to the MC.
Example 3: Dispute between SP 
and SP on inconvenience/ nuisance
Often neighbours have differences in opinion especially when 
there is a disturbance to the quality of life in one’s own home. 
E.g. Noise from the neighbour’s unit, keeping of animals etc.
The BMSMA prescribes a set of by-laws that every estate is 
required to adopt. There are specific prescribed by-laws that 
address matters relating to ‘Noise’, ‘Keeping of Animals’ etc. 
7 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority
Example 4: Dispute between SP and SP 
on inter-floor water seepage
What can the MC do?
Assist to write to the upper floor unit SP and request 
for a joint investigation with the lower floor unit SP.
Assist both parties to resolve the issue amicably.
Inform parties that they may have to apply to the STB to make an order 
to settle disputes or rectify complaints if they are still not able to resolve 
the issue.
One of the common disputes between the upper floor unit 
and lower floor unit SPs is water seepage from the upper floor 
unit to the lower floor unit.
It is advisable that both SPs come together to seek an amicable 
solution to the problem by co-operating to investigate and 
repair the leak. If they cannot come to an amicable solution, 
the SPs can request for the MC to intervene.
The parties concerned should endeavour to resolve the disputes with each other. 
Otherwise, the proper course of action will be through the Strata Titles Boards or 
the courts. Neither the Commissioner of Buildings nor BCA is empowered to resolve 
disputes under law.
2.2
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 8
Building and Construction Authority
There are many courses of action an SP can take should a dispute arise. The first step an 
SP should take is to approach the MC to try and achieve an amicable solution even if the 
dispute involves the MA or a particular Council Member or Council Members. If the MC is 
unable to, or fails to address the SP’s problem, the SP may bring the matter for discussion 
at the next general meeting, file an application with the Community Mediation Centre 
(“CMC”), the STB or the courts for a resolution. However, do take note that both CMC and 
STB do not hear all types of disputes. The types of disputes that they hear are discussed 
further below. 
Courses of Actions
03
3.1
An SP can call, email or write to the Management Office to provide feedback or 
enquire for advice. The SP should allow the MC to investigate the matter before 
taking further actions. The MC and MA should try to assist the SP, by talking through 
the problem and if possible, do so ‘face-to-face’ to resolve the problem or situation 
or recommend the appropriate actions that the SP should take. 
If the situation does not warrant a ‘face-to-face’ discussion, the MC or MA can send a 
letter, outlining what needs to be done to resolve the situation and what will happen 
if the expected conditions are not met. In many cases, the relevant person may not 
be aware of the issue, e.g. that he has breached by-laws.
Alternatively, an SP can attend the Council Meeting as an observer to further 
understand the decisions or suggestions brought up at the meeting. The SP can 
also raise his matter during the Council Meeting subject to the Chairman’s approval.
Last but not least, an SP can also raise motions to the MC to be included in the next 
AGM or request for an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting (“EOGM”). 
Approaching MC
Approaching 
MC
Raise motion to be 
included in the next AGM
Call the 
Management Office
Requisite for ExtraOrdinary General Meeting
Write email/letter to 
the Management
Attend Council Meeting 
as observer
Speak to the MA or 
Council in person
9 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority
Filing of application with CMC
If an aggrieved person has some difficulties or issues with his/her neighbour, he/
she can approach the CMC to commence voluntary mediation between them, 
provided that the neighbour is also agreeable. The CMC hears disputes involving 
inter-personal matters and is a less costly alternative. However, please note that 
CMC does not handle cases that require expert technical knowledge such as water 
seepage. The common disputes that CMC handles are appended in the chart below.
Parties interested to apply for mediation can call in, walk in or make an online 
application. For more information on the mediation process, please visit CMC’s 
website at http://www.cmc.gov.sg/.
3.2
Common 
Disputes 
handled by 
CMC
Others
•
•
Neighbours
•Noise
•Corridor obstruction
•Laundry dripping
•Verbal abuse
•Common quarrels
Landlord/Tenant 
(no contract)
•Damage
•Rental deposit
•Use of property
Approaching 
CMC
Call-in Walk-in Online Registration
Use of common 
space between shop 
owners, hawkers,
Disputes between 
colleagues, 
employer-employee
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 10
Building and Construction Authority
3.3 Filing of application with the STB
An SP who wishes to seek a resolution of a dispute can file an application with the 
STB. 
The STB is a quasi-judicial tribunal, established under the BMSMA to mediate and 
hear applications between SPs and MCs, or between SPs, on matters relating to 
certain disputes arising within strata-titled properties. The STB consists of a panel of 
experts, including lawyers, architects, and engineers. The STB’s role is to facilitate 
communication between parties, identify issues, explore options and find a mutually 
acceptable settlement for the dispute. The STB is not allowed to give any legal 
advice to any party involved. The decisions of the STB are final. After STB has made 
its decision, an appeal can only be made to the High Court on a question of law.
Common disputes brought before the STB include those on:
a. Inter-floor water leakages;
b. Performance or failure to perform certain duties under the BMSMA or 
by-laws;
c. Applications to convene meetings or invalidate resolutions passed by the 
MCs;
d. Car parking woes
e. Complaints with regard to alterations to common property;
f. Applications to revoke or invalidate certain by-laws;
g. Supply of information by management corporation; or
h. Management corporation requesting to enter an apartment to carry out 
particular work.
In general, the STB can make orders and hear certain types of disputes which are 
stipulated under the BMSMA. 
The types of disputes listed in the BMSMA that can be heard by the STB and the fees 
involved are stated on the following page.
11 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority
3.3.1 Types of orders by STB and Person entitled to apply
(Sections 101 to 115 of the BMSMA)
Sections under 
the BMSMA
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
Order to settle a dispute 
or rectify a complaint with 
respect to defects, etc.
Order to convene meetings
Order to invalidate a resolution 
or election
Order to nullify a resolution 
where voting rights were 
denied or due notice of item 
of business was not given
Order to revoke amendment 
or addition of by-law; Order to 
revive revoked by-law
Order to invalidate purported 
by-law
Order to vary the rate of 
interest chargeable for late 
payment of contribution
Order to vary contributions 
levied or manner of payment 
thereof
Order to vary insurance 
amount 
Order to make or pursue 
insurance claim
Order that MCST consents to 
SP’s proposal for alterations to 
the common property
Order to appoint a MA to 
exercise or perform certain 
powers, etc.
Order to supply information or 
documents
Order for entry to lot
Order to resolve dispute 
between MCs and subsidiary 
MCs
MC*, SP, mortgagee in 
possession, lessee or occupier
SP or other person entitled to 
vote at meeting
SP or first mortgagee
A person improperly denied 
to vote or not given due notice 
of item of business pursuant to 
which the resolution was passed
A person entitled to vote at 
general meeting (including both 
first mortgagee and mortgagor)
A person entitled to vote at 
meeting (including both first 
mortgagee and mortgagor)
SP or mortgagee in possession
MC, SP or mortgagee in 
possession
SP or mortgagee
SP
SP
SP, mortgagee or judgement 
creditor of MC
A person wrongfully refused 
information or inspection of 
record or document by MC
MC
MC
Description Person entitled to apply
* In these Notes, “MCs” includes “subsidiary MCs”.
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 12
Building and Construction Authority
Fees involved
The following chart illustrates the typical fees that an applicant should expect while 
going through the entire adjudication process with STB. 
3.3.2
STB’s administrative staff may be able to assist you with your queries on administrative 
matters, such as how to submit an application, but cannot give legal advice on the 
merits of your case. 
The aggrieved party has to file an application using the appropriate approved form, 
which can be downloaded from this website https://www.stratatb.gov.sg/resourcesforms.html
Application under Division 2 
of Part VI of the BMSMA (for 
STB to hear the case, under 
the types of orders)
Attendance before a Board, 
whether for a mediation 
session under regulation 9 
or a directions hearing under 
regulation 13 of the Building 
Maintenance and Strata 
Management (Strata Titles 
Boards) Regulations 2005
Ancillary fees (for supplying 
of information etc)
Application fee $500
$300 for each day 
or part thereof for 
arbitration hearing
$150 for each day or part 
thereof from the third 
attendance onwards
No fee shall be payable 
for the first 2 attendances 
before STB
$1 per page for supplying 
a copy of a document
$5 per page for 
certification of a copy 
of a document
13 | Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions
Building and Construction Authority
3.4 Filing of application with Court
An aggrieved person can make an application to the States Court/Community 
Disputes Resolution Tribunal (“CDRT”) to hear the following types of disputes:
a. Causing excessive noise, smell, smoke, light or vibration;
b. Littering at or in the vicinity of your place of residence;
c. Obstructing your place of residence;
d. Interfering with your movable property;
e. Conducting surveillance on you or your place of residence, where the 
surveillance is done at or in the vicinity of your place of residence;
f. Trespassing on your place of residence;
g. Allowing his animal to trespass on your place of residence, to cause excessive 
noise or smell, or to defecate or urinate at or in the vicinity of your place of 
residence.
An aggrieved person can also seek any of the following orders against his neighbour.
References:
BMSMA | BM(SM) Regulations | STB Website | Singapore Courts Website
At this stage, the dispute has escalated into a litigious process. Please note that the 
onus is on the applicant to provide the necessary evidence required to establish his 
case against the respondent.
Please refer to https://www.judiciary.gov.sg/civil/file-neighbour-dispute-claim for 
more information.
Damages
Other order
Specific 
performance
Injunction
Apology
An order for your neighbour to pay you a sum of money 
Any other order to give effect to the above court orders
An order for your neighbour to do something
An order for your neighbour to stop doing something
An order for your neighbour to apologise to you
Dispute Resolution: Common Disputes and Courses of Actions | 14
Building and Construction Authority
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550
