STRATA 
MANAGEMENT 
GUIDE : 4
Proceedings of a 
General Meeting
Building and Construction Authority
2 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
Disclaimer
This guide has been prepared to provide practical information on the BMSMA and Regulations made under 
the BMSMA (Regulations).
This guide :
• Does not provide a legal interpretation of provisions in the Act or Regulations; and
• Is not a substitute for independent legal advice.
Readers should seek professional legal advice if they need to determine specific legal rights and duties 
applicable to them. The Commissioner of Buildings, BCA or any agency stated in this guide shall not be 
liable for any reliance on or misinterpretation of any information contained in this guide by any person.
Copyright
The contents of this guide are protected by copyright and other forms of proprietary rights. All 
rights, title and interest in the contents are owned by, licensed to or controlled by BCA and shall 
not be reproduced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise distributed in any 
way, without the prior written permission of BCA. Modification of any of the contents or use of 
the contents for any other purpose will be a violation of BCA’s copyright and other intellectual 
property rights.
Important Notice: Readers must not rely on this guide for legal advice.
Abbreviations
First published in March 2019
Annual General Meeting
Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
Building Maintenance (Strata Management) Regulations 2005
Managing Agent
Management Corporation Strata Title
Management Corporation
Subsidiary Proprietor
AGM
BMSMA
BM(SM) REGULATIONS
MA
MCST
MC
SP
Preamble
This series of Strata Management Guides published by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) is 
intended to help councils of the management corporations (MCs), subsidiary proprietors (SPs), council 
members and managing agents (MAs) better manage their estates.
The guide will include recommended procedures and good practices to address common issues (e.g. how 
to conduct a general meeting and how to requisition a motion).
The guide is aimed at providing a consistent approach and standard for the strata community to facilitate 
better self-regulation. 
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 3
Preamble
(1) Introduction
(2) Convening General Meetings
(3) Eligibility to vote at at General Meeting
(4) Proxy
(5) Representative of Companies
(6) Voting
(7) Chairperson to Preside Over General Meeting
(8) Minutes of General Meeting
(9) Adjournment of General Meeting
(10) Sequence of an Annual General Meeting
Annex A
Content
4
5
7
8
12
13
15
17
19
20
22
Icons in this guide
Good Practice Example
Building and Construction Authority
4 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
1.1 As mentioned in Strata Management Guide 3, the general meeting is a platform 
for the subsidiary proprietors (SPs) of a management corporation (MC) to 
decide on matters relating to the management, operation and administration of 
their estate.
1.2 To ensure that the proceedings of a general meeting are proper, the MC may wish 
to refer to the First Schedule to the BMSMA1 to take note of the requirements 
including quorum, counting of votes, and passing of resolution.
1 Section 27(3) of the BMSMA: Generally, the First Schedule shall apply to and in respect of any meeting of a MCST, and voting at 
that meeting.
01
Introduction
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 5
2.1 A sufficient quorum, as provided for below, must be met before a general meeting 
can be convened. A quorum is first deemed to be met if either Condition A(1) 
or Condition A(2) is met. If Condition A(1) and Condition A(2) cannot be met, a 
quorum can still be met if Condition B is met.
(Paragraph 3 of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
In cases where the MC is unable to meet either Condition A(1) or Condition A(2) at the 
appointed time of the meeting, this Condition B may kick in where 30 minutes after the 
appointed time of the meeting, two or more SPs are present at the meeting in person 
(not by proxy).
[Exception: The “Half-Hour Rule” does not apply to an extraordinary general meeting 
(EOGM) convened on requisition made by SPs.]
(Paragraph 3 of the First Schedule to 
the BMSMA)
SPs who together own at least 30% of 
the total share value of the lots in the 
MC are present at the meeting either 
in person or by proxy.
CONDITION A(1)
CONDITION B – “Half-Hour Rule”
CONDITION A(2)
(Paragraph 11 of the First Schedule to 
the BMSMA)
If at least 30% of the total share value 
of the lots in the MC is owned by the 
Chairperson of the MC who is present at 
the meeting in person. This Condition 
A(2) is considered to have been satisfied 
even if the Chairperson is the only person 
present at the meeting.
CONDITION A
Annual General Meeting and Extraordinary General Meeting Convened 
by Council of Management Corporation
02
Convening 
General Meetings
Building and Construction Authority
6 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
(Paragraph 3 of the First Schedule to 
the BMSMA)
SPs who together own at least 30% of 
the total share value of the lots in the 
MC are present at the meeting either 
in person or by proxy.
(Paragraph 11 of the First Schedule to 
the BMSMA)
If at least 30% of the total share value
of the lots in the MC is owned by the 
Chairperson of the MC who is present at 
the meeting in person, this Condition A(2) 
is considered to have been satisfied even if 
the Chairperson is the only person present 
at the meeting.
CONDITION A(1) CONDITION A(2)
Extraordinary General Meeting Convened Due to Requisition by 
Subsidiary Proprietors
(Paragraph 3 of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
2.2 A quorum is deemed to be met if either Condition A(1) or Condition A(2) is met.
CONDITION A
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 7
(Paragraph 12 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
The SPs have received the annual general meeting (AGM) agenda notice that the 
AGM will be held on a specific date. Some SPs would like to attend and cast their 
votes in the AGM but are not sure if they are in arrears.
3.1 If an SP is in arrears of contributions due to the MC 3 days before a general meeting, 
he cannot cast a vote at that general meeting except for motions that are to be 
passed by unanimous resolution or resolution by consensus. 
3.2 If two or more persons representing the same lot attend a general meeting, the 
vote of the senior will be accepted as the rightful vote and the seniority of the 
person will be determined by the order in which the names are reflected in the 
strata roll.
SPs should check with the MC or MA whether there are any arrears in payment 
of contributions or interest due to the MC.
If there is any amount due to the MC, SPs should pay off the amount immediately 
or, at the latest, by 72 hours before the AGM so that they will be able to vote in 
the AGM.
As good practice, the MC may include in the AGM notice a reminder for the 
SPs to ensure that their payments to the management funds are up to date.
03
Eligibility to Vote at a 
General Meeting
Example: SPs who are in Arrears will not be allowed to vote at a 
general meeting
Building and Construction Authority
8 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
04
Proxy 
(Paragraph 19 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
4.1 A proxy is a person who has been given permission by an SP to represent him at a 
general meeting. 
 A proxy:
 a) Does not have to be an SP;
 b) Can participate in the discussion and vote in the general meeting on behalf of 
the SP who appointed him as proxy;
 c) Is still entitled to vote with respect to his own lot if he is an SP;
 d) Can be appointed as proxy by more than one SP; and
 e) Cannot vote on behalf of the SP who appointed him as proxy if that SP becomes 
present at the general meeting and is exercising his right to vote.
4.2 The number of SPs that a proxy can represent is capped at 2% of the total 
number of lots in the development or two lots, whichever is higher. It will be 
calculated based on the total number of lots and be rounded down to the nearest 
whole number. 
4.3 The proxy holder is responsible to ensure that he does not exceed the threshold. 
The proxy holder should also inform the SPs attempting to appoint him as a proxy 
that he has hit the cap set out under the BMSMA. He can seek the MA’s or MC’s 
assistance in determining the number of SPs he can be proxy for.
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 9
4.4 As good practice, the MC or MA can assist SPs by ensuring that all SPs are made 
aware of the cap on the number of proxies that any individual SP can hold. Ideally, 
this cap should be reflected in the explanatory note in every agenda notice that is 
provided by the MC prior to the holding of a general meeting.
Examples on the Proxy Cap
Proxy Form
(Paragraphs 17 and 18 of First Schedule to the BMSMA) 
4.5 Every SP who appoints a proxy should use a proxy form to appoint a proxy. The 
proxy form must be: 
 a) Prepared every time there is a general meeting;
 b) Signed by the SP and the proxy;
 c)Deposited in the registered address of the MC or in any other address specified 
in the notice of the meeting, not less than 48 hours before the appointed 
time of the general meeting;
 d)Issued under the company seal or signed by a duly authorised officer or attorney 
if the SP appointing the proxy is a company; and
 e) Each proxy form must list all the motions to be decided at the general meeting.
 Proxy exercises his discretion when there is no indication of voting preference in 
the proxy form.
2% of the total 
number of lots in 
the development
or 2 lots
a) 80 lots *1.6 2 2
b) 400 lots 8 2 8
Total number of 
lots in the MC
Cap on the number of proxy 
(whichever is higher)
Number of SPs 
that a proxy 
can represent 
(excluding the 
vote he is holding 
as a SP)
* where the figure is not a whole number, it will be rounded down accordingly
Building and Construction Authority
10 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
4.6 If the SP does not indicate his voting preference (i.e. for, against, or abstain) 
for a particular motion in the proxy form, the proxy holder may vote or abstain 
from voting at his discretion in relation to any matter which is put before the 
meeting (including ancillary motions) based on what the proxy holder knows of 
the intentions of the proxy giver.
Vote in Accordance to Indicated Voting Preference
4.7 However, if the SP has indicated his decision for a particular motion, the proxy 
holder must vote in accordance with what the SP has indicated on the form. If
there are changes to the motion or if there are ancillary motions raised in the
general meeting that were not previously represented on the form, the proxy 
holder should not vote on this motion. It is compulsory on the proxy holder to 
ensure that he votes in accordance to what is provided in the proxy form but MAs 
who wish to be prudent may also decide to complete the voting slips on their 
own accord based on what is indicated in the proxy forms.
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 11
*I/We, ......................................... of being *a member/members of the abovenamed 
management corporation, hereby appoint ............................................., of ....................
..................................., as *my/our proxy to attend the (annual or extraordinary, as the 
case may be) general meeting of the management corporation or subsidiary management 
corporation, to be held on the ........... day of ....... 20 ........, and at any adjournment of the 
meeting and to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf in the following manner.
Notes:
1. A subsidiary proprietor may direct his or her proxy to vote on the resolution by ticking 
the desired box (in favour of/against the resolution or abstain from voting) in the above 
table. An abstain vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes.
2. If the subsidiary proprietor does not indicate his or her voting preference in the above 
table, the proxy may vote or abstain from voting at the proxy’s discretion, in relation 
to any matter which is put before the meeting (including any resolution to adjourn the 
meeting or to amend any resolution proposed at the meeting).
3. This instrument appointing a proxy is void if I/we am/are present at the meeting.
Signed this ......... day of ......... 20 .......
...............................................................
Signature(s) of the subsidiary proprietor(s)
...............................................................
Signature(s) of proxy
* delete whichever is inapplicable
<Prescribed Proxy Form>
Resolution For Against Abstain
Building and Construction Authority
12 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
05
Representative of 
Companies (Paragraph 16 of First Schedule to the BMSMA)
5.1 Any company that is an SP can appoint an individual as its representative to attend 
a particular meeting or all meetings of the MC. 
5.2 Whilst it is possible for several companies (who are also SPs) in a MC to appoint the 
same person as their authorised representative, it is not prudent to do so. Instead, 
it is advisable for a company to ensure that the representative is from the company 
itself. This will ensure that the Company’s interests are adequately represented at 
the general meeting. In addition, the authorised representative should be a person 
with sufficient authority so that he will be able to represent the Company’s interests 
adequately during the general meeting. The appointment letter (known as the letter 
of authorisation) must be in writing and issued under the company seal or signed by 
the company’s director or the company’s duly authorised lawyer.
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 13
Voting
(Paragraph 9 of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
06
6.1 The BMSMA and its Regulations specify the types of resolution required for the 
passing of different motions.
6.2 A motion must be decided according to the number of votes cast for and 
against the motion. However, a motion may also be decided by polling in the 
following cases:
 a) If the Act specifies that a resolution is to be passed only after a poll is taken; or
 b) In the case of an ordinary resolution, if a person demands a poll2.
 When a poll is called, the voting will be based on share value of the lot as opposed 
to each lot carrying one vote.
2 A poll may be demanded by any person entitled to vote at a general meeting and the demand must be made by that person 
personally at the meeting.
MCST PLAN NO. 9999
9th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
FOR AGAINST ABSTAINED
RESOLUTION NO.
UNIT NO.
SHARE VALUE 99
#09-99
6.3 All voting (whether or not a poll will be taken) are to be conducted using voting 
slips prepared by the MC. The voting slips should subsequently be collected by 
the MC and retained for record purposes. The MC may wish to appoint persons to 
scrutinise the counting of votes for transparency.
Sample Voting Slip
Building and Construction Authority
14 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
Casting of Votes
 > Based on one vote 
per lot
Polling of Votes
 > Based on share value of 
the lot relating to which 
the vote is cast
Supporting of Writing
 > 12 weeks after a 
general meeting
Types of
Resolutions
14 Days
of notice
required
Ordinary
Section 2(2) of the 
BMSMA
A simple majority 
(>50%) of SPs are 
present at the meeting [Upon demand by a person]
Conducted at the 
general meeting
Conducted at the 
general meeting
Special
Section 2(3) of the 
BMSMA
At least 75% of the 
share value of all the 
valid votes cast at the 
meeting are in favour 
of the motion
90%
Section 2(5) of the 
BMSMA
At least 90% of the 
share value of all the 
valid votes cast at the 
meeting are in favour 
of the motion
Unanimous
Section 2(4) of the 
BMSMA
All SPs vote in favour 
of the motion at the 
meeting
Comprehensive
Section 2(6) of the 
BMSMA
At least 90% of total 
share value in the 
development are in 
favour of the motion
By Consensus
Section 2(3) of the 
BMSMA
All SPs are in favour 
of the motion and 
support the motion 
in writing
21 Days
of notice
required
Conducted at the 
general meeting
Conducted at the 
general meeting
Conducted at the 
general meeting
Calculated 12 
weeks after a 
general meeting
Calculated 12 
weeks after a 
general meeting
Method and process of passing the resolution
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 15
07
Chairperson to Preside 
Over General Meeting
7.1 The owner developer must be the Chairperson of the general meeting. In the event 
the developer does not hold the first AGM as required3
, any SP or mortgagee of 
any lot in the development may apply to the Commissioner to appoint a person to 
convene the first AGM of the MC for that development. 
7.2 The developer must appoint a suitable employee (or responsible officer, as defined 
in the BMSMA) from its organisation to attend and chair the first AGM. In addition, 
the developer can also appoint a MA to help in the proceedings of the meeting but 
the MA is not treated as the developer’s representative. 
3 See Guide 3 on ‘Preparation of a General Meeting’, Section 2 on ‘Calling for the General Meeting’.
At the First Annual General Meeting
(Sections 26(2) and 26(6) of the BMSMA)
Definition of ‘responsible officer’ in the BMSMA
(a) For an owner developer that is a corporation or limited liability partnership, means
 i. Any director, partner, chief executive officer or employee of the corporation; or
 ii. For a corporation whose affairs are managed by its members, it means any 
of those members as if the member were a director of the corporation, or any 
employee of the corporation;
(b) For an owner developer that is a partnership, it means any partner in the partnership, 
or any employee of the partnership; or
Building and Construction Authority
16 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
Subsequent Annual General Meeting
(Paragraph 6 of the First Schedule to the BMSMA)
7.3 The Chairperson of the MC must be the Chairperson of the general meeting. If he 
is not present at the general meeting, the persons entitled to vote at that general 
meeting must nominate a Chairperson from amongst themselves.
(c) For an owner developer that is an unincorporated association (other than a 
partnership), it means:
 i. The president, the secretary, or any member of the committee of the 
unincorporated association;
 ii. Any person holding a position analogous to that of president, secretary or 
member of a committee of the unincorporated association; or
 iii. Any employee of the unincorporated association.
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 17
08
Minutes of 
General Meeting 
(Paragraph 3 of Second Schedule to the BMSMA) 
8.1 The MC must display a copy of the minutes of the general meeting on the common 
notice board, within 45 days after the meeting and for a period of at least 14 days. 
A copy of the minutes may also be distributed to every SP by post or through 
electronic means.
8.2 The information recorded in the minutes of a general meeting must contain
a) Date, time and place of the meeting;
b) Names of SPs present;
c) Names of SPs who have appointed proxies;
d) Names of proxies present;
e) Results of the votes on every motion submitted at the meeting; and
f) Text of every resolution of the MC made at the general meeting.
8.3 The minutes of the general meeting should be adopted and confirmed at the next 
general meeting.
Building and Construction Authority
18 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
a) Ensure the minutes of AGM records the number of votes cast for and against the 
motion, as well as the chairman’s declaration of the voting result. The minutes should 
also record the actions agreed to be taken pursuant to the motion, assuming it 
is passed.
b) Include a brief explanation of the rationale for the decision. If there is extensive 
deliberation before passing the motion, the secretary should summarise and 
record the key points discussed.
c) The secretary should also circulate the draft minutes of meeting to all the council 
members who were present at the AGM for comments before the minutes are 
put up for approval in the next general meeting.
While the BMSMA does not stipulate the format and details on how the minutes 
of meeting should be recorded, the MC can adopt the following good practice:
What can MCs do
The last AGM had authorised the MC to raise a special levy to carry out re-roofing 
of the development. Some SPs who were not present in the AGM were unsure 
what the special levy was all about. 
Good Practice: Minutes of meeting to capture important 
decisions made at the meeting
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 19
09
Adjournment of 
General Meeting 
9.1 A general meeting may be adjourned for any reason if a motion to adjourn the 
meeting is passed at the meeting.
9.2 If any meeting is to be adjourned, the person presiding at the general meeting 
must fix the time and place of the next meeting. Where there is no place fixed, he 
may indicate a tentative venue for the next meeting.
9.3 The notice to be served for the adjourned meeting should comply with the 
requirements for notices as prescribed in the BMSMA4
. For example, the notice 
should include the venue and time.
4 Please see Guide 3 on ‘Preparation for a General Meeting’, Section 5 on ‘Notice Period’.
Building and Construction Authority
20 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
10
Sequence of an 
Annual General Meeting
Suggested Sequence of Agenda for an Annual General Meeting
10.1 It is recommended that the sequence of an AGM follows the agenda as listed in 
the agenda notice. The following is a suggested sequence that is typically adopted 
by MCs when setting out an agenda:
5 See Annex A on workflow on Election of council member of MC.
1. Adoption of Audited Accounts
10. Annual Budget of the MCST
2. Minutes of last General Meeting
9. Requested Motions proposed by 
Council Members or SPs
3. Decide the number of Council Members
8. Appointment of Auditor
4. Election of Council Members 
of MCST5
7. Report and review of 
Insurance Coverage
5. Management Fund and Sinking Fund
6. Review and appointment of MA
Building and Construction Authority
Proceedings of a General Meeting | 21
10.2 The agenda of an AGM must include the following motions to:
Adopt of the statement of accounts (commonly known as ‘audit report’);
Confirm the minutes of the last AGM;
Decide the number of members to be elected into the council;
Elect members of the council;
Determine the amount to be raised for the management fund and the 
sinking fund;
Approve the proposed annual budget of the MC for the new financial year;
Decide if any matter or type of matter is to be determined only by the MC in 
general meeting;
Appoint an auditor;
Report on the insurance coverage and review the adequacy of the insurance of the 
MC; and
Decide on the termination of any MA or continuation of the MA for the next 
ensuing financial year.
References:
BMSMA – Sections 2, 26, 27
First Schedule to the BMSMA
Second Schedule to the BMSMA
Building and Construction Authority
22 | Proceedings of a General Meeting
Election of Council Members of MC.
The Chairperson should first check the number of nominees against the number of 
determined council seats (i.e. reserved seats for all the user groups, as well as open seats).
Scenario 2: If number of nominees is more than number of determined 
council seats:
Step 1 - Allocation of the reserved seat for each user group should be carried out first.
(a) If there is only one nominee from that user group, that nominee will take up the one 
reserved seat for that user group automatically.
(b) If there is more than one nominee for that user group, then the nominee from that 
user group who garnered the highest number of votes will take up the one reserved 
seat for that user group automatically. 
(c) If there is a tie in the number of votes between two nominees for that user group, 
the Chairperson of the meeting may decide by drawing lots in such manner as 
he determines.
Step 2 - Allocation of open seats for the remaining nominees (any user group)
(a)The remaining nominees that were not allocated a reserved seat will fill the remaining 
open seats. The seats will be filled in the following order of priority – where the 
candidate with the highest votes would be placed first and the other candidates will 
be placed in order according to votes received by them.
(b) If there is a tie in the number of votes between any two candidates, the Chairperson 
of the meeting may decide by drawing lots in such manner as he determines.
Scenario 1: If number of nominees equals to or is less than number of 
determined council seats: 
No balloting is required, and all nominees will be elected as council members automatically.
Annex A
52 Jurong Gateway Road #11-01, 
Singapore 608550 
